CULTURAL CORNER
Shakespeare: Background information for
students

Shakespeare was an entertainer, someone
who wrote to pull in a paying audience, many
of whom could not read and write. In his day
he was as popular as any TV series is today.
Some of the stories in his plays he made up
himself but mostly he adapted popular stories
or events that people would have heard of. He
spent his whole working life in London, writing
for his living, and he was so successful that he
was able to retire to a large house in Stratfordupon-Avon where he had grown up.
Human behaviour hasn’t changed much
since Shakespeare’s time, even if clothes have
changed. We don’t wear doublet and hose
today, but we can still make jokes about
people who wear anoraks or Armani. We may
not make jokes about ostlers and franklins,
but we laugh at comedians’ jokes about shop
assistants or taxi drivers. There are people like
Falstaff alive today, gross, idle, lazy drinkers
who tell tall stories and try to impress women,
especially those who have money. There are
circumstances today in which someone may,
like Isabella, face a situation where doing
something they think is very wrong is the
only way to help someone. Relations between
men and women will always perhaps, involve
the battles, doubts and differences we see
between Beatrice and Benedick and Petruchio
and Katharina. And surely, politicians will
always be as subtle and devious as Shakespeare
shows them in the extracts from Julius Caesar
and Coriolanus.
Shakespeare didn’t write stage directions in
his scripts. The scripts that have come down
to us are nearly all copies of the actors’ scripts
rather than his own director’s script. These
often contained only the specific actor’s lines
and cues, in case they fell into the wrong hands
and a rival company put the play together and
stole the audience. So you won’t find many
directions in the margin of his scripts, other
than “enter with a flourish”. He inserted
subtle directions in a character’s speech such
as “what bloody man is that” where a more

modern writer may write as a stage direction
“Enter a man covered in blood as from a
battle”.
Shakespeare’s theatre

Most of the London theatres were on the
south bank of the River Thames, outside the
rules of the city of London. This was because
theatres had gained a bad reputation - they
encouraged people to take time off work, and
they brought together crowds of people from
different places, which meant that germs and
disease could spread quickly.
For most of Shakespeare’s life, he wrote
for an open-air theatre where the wealthiest
people could pay for a seat, but others could
choose to pay less and stand up. If you can,
visit the replica of the Globe or look at some
pictures of it to see how these conditions may
have affected performance.
Shakespeare didn’t have modern aids such
as microphones, lighting, moveable sets,
mechanically operated curtains or any other
devices to show a different setting. Actors
needed big voices to ensure that they were
heard, and audiences had to accept that the
scene had changed when an actor said, “This
castle hath a pleasant seat” or “So here is the
forest at last”. Usually the end of a scene was
indicated by a pair of rhyming lines, rather
than by a curtain closing or lights going down.
Women’s parts were acted by boy actors. This
could make love scenes difficult, but most of
Shakespeare’s love scenes involve talk rather
than action, which must have been a relief to
the actors!
Shakespeare and other actors shared in
the profits of their acting company, so it was
important to keep coming up with plays that
brought in paying audiences. Shakespeare
wrote plays to suit audiences who liked
romances, historical events, weepy stories
and plays full of comic characters and comic
scenes. In other words, he made it his business
to appeal to every kind of theatregoer so that
they would pay to see his plays rather than the
plays at the theatre down the road.

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 87

87

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
