the period he lived in, his life, his plays,
The Globe Theatre.
In the first column pupils list main
•
themes for a presentation. In the second
column, the statements one would write
about Shakespeare in order to prepare a
presentation.
• Other possible topics for the first column:
His tragedies, his comedies, his histories,
Shakespeare on film and TV.
Differentiated Activities (*): Use Activity
A, p. 145 to compile an easy chart with
information about Shakespeare.
For a more difficult reading, see the
background text about the famous line
from Hamlet, “To be or not to be”.
ACTIVITY BOOK:
UNIT 7 • LESSON 1 • ACTIVITY A • p. 42
KEY Start-started; be-was; go-went;
cry-cried; study-studied; stop-stopped;
enjoy-enjoyed; have-had; give-gave; diedied; live-lived; love-loved; paint-painted;
discover-discovered; write-wrote; meetmet; hate-hated; kill-killed; becomebecame; know-knew. 1. discovered; 2.
was, was born, lived, met, became; 3.
was, wrote, became; 4. was, painted,
was, was, painted, knew, was, are, was;
5. loved, hated, killed.
C. LISTENING

PB page: 87/Time: 15 mins/ TB Introduction
p.10
→ Cross-curricular link: THEATRE (Θεατρική
Αγωγή)

Pre-Listening
•
We are looking at Epidaurus and The
Globe Theatre in more detail. Check what
pupils know about Epidaurus. Then make
them read chart.
• Check what they know about The Globe.
•
Get them to predict the differences
between the two and to predict answers
for the blank spaces in The Globe
column.

While-Listening
Pupils are listening for specific information
to fill in the blanks on the Globe Theatre:

number of seats, number of rows, whether
the theatre was open or closed, what the
theatre was made out of and its acoustics.
TAPESCRIPT
Welcome to The Globe Theatre! This theatre
was built in 1599. Shakespeare was one of the
owners of the original theatre.
This is a very close replica. It is a round structure
and is made mainly out of wood. As you can see
it has 3 rows of balconies. There is also a central
courtyard where the stage is. It could hold 3,000
people.
The richer people had seats in the balconies.
The poorer people instead did not have seats but
stood in the central courtyard. As you can see,
the stage is about one and half metres above the
ground. This stopped the people in the courtyard
from jumping onto the stage.
Because the central courtyard was uncovered,
plays were performed only between May and
September and because there was no artificial
lighting they were performed in the early
afternoons.
The acoustics were very poor and the actors
and actresses had to shout their lines in order
to be heard.
As in ancient Greece, because women
were not allowed to perform, men performed
women’s roles
The flag of the theatre showed Hercules
carrying a globe – that was the logo of the
theatre. The motto of the theatre was in Latin:
“totus mundus agit histrionem” which means,
“The whole world is a stage”.
The Theatre first opened with a performance
of Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar.

Post Listening
• Answers for missing blanks in The Globe
column: Seats: 3000; Rows: 3; Open
or closed: Open; Made out of: Wood;
Acoustics: Poor.
• Pupils refer back to Comparatives of Unit
6 and write sentences comparing the 2
theatres.
Examples:
-
The acoustics were much better at
Epidaurus than at The Globe.
- Epidaurus had many more seats than The

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 81

81

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
