                    9
                   Lesson 1 SHE HAS HELPED SAVE GORILLAS

                   A      LEAD-IN 8
              Have you ever seen a real gorilla?
              What do you know about gorillas?
              Where do they live?



                   B      READING
                   Read this interesting article that Kostas came across on the internet and after reding the article
                   and decide whether the sentences are true (0) or false (=):


                       Dian Fossey became famous when her photo was on the front
                       cover of the National Geographic magazine in January 1970. She
                       was holding 2 baby gorillas. Dian was born in San Francisco, USA.
                       After her university studies, she went to Africa where she decided to
                       protect the mountain gorillas on the Rwanda-Congo border.

                       This is an article from an old newspaper from the 1970s. Dian Fossey
                       tells a reporter a typical story about her work with gorillas.

                       “I am looking after this baby gorilla. Poachers* have killed 10
                       gorillas. There was the whole family group who was defending him. The poachers were only interested
                       in the baby gorilla. They have received money to get young gorillas from the forests and sell them to
                       zoos in Europe and America.
                       This is how it happens: European and American zoos contact forest rangers in Africa and ask them
                       to find baby gorillas. The park rangers then contact poachers. Poachers then kill adult gorillas to
                       steal their babies.
                       The poachers have looked after this baby gorilla very badly. They tied its hands and feet with metal
                       wire. The wire has hurt its skin.It has also received very little food and no water.
                       I have spoken to the park ranger. I don’t want this baby gorilla to leave Africa. It must go back to the
                       forest. However, I know, because the zoo has paid the ranger, it will leave Africa and go to a zoo in
                       America or Europe. The only thing I must do now is to make sure the baby gorilla is in good health
                       before it leaves.
                       If we don’t stop this traffic of baby gorillas, there won’t be any gorillas left soon.”
                       Dian Fossey continued her work with gorillas for many years and because of her work she has saved
                       this animal species from extinction.

                                                        Adapted from “Dian Fossey’s Forgotten Gorilla Orphans” from www.ippl.org
                                                                               (International Primate Protection League website)
                       * Poachers = λαθροκυνηγοί




              110 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                        9-•- •Lesson
                                               Lesson11




10-0103.indb 110                                                                                                                   1/7/14 1:58 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | top-right: colour photo of two adult gorillas with a baby gorilla on grass.]
[IMAGE 2 | middle-right (inside article box): colour photo of Dian Fossey crouching in foliage with two gorillas.]
Icons/UI (not IMAGES): section badges A+B; reading-book and listening icons.
