                    9
                   D     READING
                   Read the following article and complete the chart with the true (0) or false (=) questions.

              Children’s Art Competition in Ireland
              The First Texaco Children’s Art Competition (“Caltex”) was organized over 50 years ago, in 1955.
              In 1955 there was no television and no rock and roll music. Children played with footballs, skipping ropes
              and other simple games. Children enjoyed using their imagination and found ways of saying what they saw
              and felt through drawings, paintings and other simple forms of creativity. Ireland was a quiet and peaceful
              agricultural nation, far away from the rest of Europe. The Caltex competition became famous immediately
              and brought together the children of Ireland.

              Every year schools all over Ireland receive an invitation for their pupils to send in their works of art. There are
              several categories, depending on the children’s ages. The prizes are handed out in Dublin and all the prize
              winners get a free trip to the capital city to attend the ceremony. Since 1955 many millions of Irish children have
              sent in their works. Some prize winners have become famous artists. We can say over the past 50 years children
              from every family in Ireland have sent in their works of art to the competition.




                          Bernadette Madden,
                         now famous Irish artist,
                       receiving her prize in 1966.




                   Adapted from:
                   www.texacochildrensart.com



                                                                                                              True      False
                   1. The Caltex competition began in 1995.
                   2. The prize-winners go to London to receive the prizes.

                   3. Since the competition began many millions of children have sent in their artworks.

                   4. Each year, there is only one prize.
                   5. Some children have become famous artists.


              116 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                        9-•- •Lesson
                                               Lesson21




10-0103.indb 116                                                                                                                    1/7/14 1:59 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | middle-left: black-and-white 1966 photo of Bernadette Madden receiving her art prize; caption below.]
[IMAGE 2 | middle-centre: colourful child painting of figures under a tree with a sun.]
[IMAGE 3 | middle-right: watercolour of a boy reading under a large sun.]
[IMAGE 4 | bottom-centre: painted portrait of a girl.]
[IMAGE 5 | bottom-right: green paper-collage of doll-like children; text "FRIENDS".]
Icons/UI (not IMAGES): section badge D; reading-book icon.
