                                                                                                                           9
                   E    WRITING
                   Your pen friend has suggested exchanging your travel experiences. Write a letter to him/her talking
                   about them. Talk about the places you have visited in your country (or abroad) so far, when you
                   went there and what you saw:



                   Dear

                   I think your idea is terrific. So let me tell you where I’ve travelled so far.
                   I’ve been to many places. I’ve been to.



                   Last year I went to



                   What about you?
                                                                                                  Learning strategies
                   Love,
                                                                                        WRITING

                                                                                        c When I write a sentence, I always think 		
                                                                                          about the person who will read it

                                                                                        c What exactly do I want to say?
                   F    GAME: HAVE YOU EVER?

                   Each pupil gives the teacher 2 written questions they want to ask their classmates, to see who
                   has done what. The questions must relate to good actions in your families and neighbourhood.

              Examples:
              • Have you ever helped someone who doesn’t know Greek to understand street names?
              • Have you ever helped clean up litter on a beach?
              • Have you ever written to your local authorities about a problem in your neighbourhood?
              • Have you ever written to a government official outside your local authorities?
              • Have you ever helped your brother and sisters with their homework?
              • Have you ever helped your parents with their housework?

              Add to this list. The class must try to come up with at least 15 questions. The pupil who has done the
              most things wins. He/she will be the Model Citizen of the Class!

                                                                                     Pupil’s
                                                                                      Pupil’sBook
                                                                                              Book••UNIT               1 / 117
                                                                                                          9 - • Lesson 2
                                                                                                     UNIT10




10-0103.indb 117                                                                                                                       1/7/14 1:59 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[no content images – letter template and game instructions only.]
Icons/UI (not IMAGES): writing-pencil icon; Learning-strategies dartboard; game-dice icon.
