                                                                                                                      9
                   E    SPEAKING: PAST MEMORIES

                   Do some research at home and report back to your class.
                   Small things make a difference in our lives. Ask your parents and grandparents about important
                   things they did during their lives, which they want to be remembered for.

              For example, Kostas’s grandfather told him: “Throughout my life I’ve saved many dolphins from fishing
              nets.”



                   F    PORTFOLIO

              The school year is nearing the end. What three things do you want to be remembered for this year? For
              example:
              • I have never been late to class.
              • I have always handed in my homework on time.


                   The three things from this year I want to be remembered for.

                   1.
                   2.
                   3.


                   As a class make a list of 10 things you can all be proud of which you have done during this year.
                   Write them up on a poster and stick them up on your classroom wall.



                                              CROSS CURRICULAR PROJECT

              These are 3 famous people who have many sports records:
              • Yiannis Kouros: The Greek ultra-distance runner, broke many ultra-distance running world records. One
              record: in 1996 in a stadium, he ran 294,546 kilometres
              in 24-hours, beating his own previous record by 8.1
              kilometres.
              • Michael Schumacher: He has won the Formula One
              World Championship 7 times.
              • Reinhold Messner: He has climbed all of the 8
              mountains in the world above 8000 metres.

                   Can you find other famous people who have
                   many sports records like these, or any other
                   records? Write sentences and find photos.                                                Michael
                                                                           Everest                          Schumacher


                                                                                     Pupil’s
                                                                                      Pupil’sBook
                                                                                              Book••UNIT  9 - • Lesson 1 / 113
                                                                                                     UNIT10




10-0103.indb 113                                                                                                                 1/7/14 1:59 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | bottom-centre-right: colour photo of Mount Everest with glacier; caption "Everest".]
[IMAGE 2 | bottom-right: colour photo of Formula One driver Michael Schumacher in red race suit on the podium (Mobil backdrop); caption "Michael Schumacher".]
Icons/UI (not IMAGES): speaking-bubble and portfolio icons; CROSS CURRICULAR PROJECT banner.
