NEW YEAR TRADITIONS
Happy New Year!” That greeting will be said and heard for at least the first couple of weeks, as
a new year gets under way. But the day celebrated as New Year’s Day was not always January 1st.
1. ANCIENT NEW YEARS

The celebration of the New Year is the oldest of all
holidays. It was first observed in ancient Babylon about
4000 years ago. In the years around 2000 BC, the
Babylonian New Year began with the first New Moon
(actually the first visible crescent) after the Vernal Equinox
(first day of spring).
The beginning of spring is a logical time to start a new
year. After all, it is the season of rebirth, of planting new
crops, and of blossoming. January 1st, on the other hand, has no astronomical nor agricultural
significance. It is purely arbitrary.
The Babylonian New Year celebration lasted for eleven days. Each day had its own particular
mode of celebration, but it is safe to say that modern New Year’s Eve festivities pale in comparison.
The Romans continued to observe the New Year in late March, but their calendar was continually
tampered with by various emperors so that the calendar soon came out of synchronization with
the sun.
In order to set the calendar right, the Roman senate, in 153 BC, declared January 1st to be the
beginning of the new year. But tampering continued until Julius Caesar, in 46 BC, established
what has come to be known as the Julian calendar. It again established January 1 as the new
year. But in order to synchronize the calendar with the sun, Caesar had to let the previous year
drag on for 445 days.
3. NEW YEAR TRADITIONS

Other traditions of the season include the making of New Year’s resolutions. That tradition
also dates back to the early Babylonians. Popular modern resolutions might include the promise
to lose weight or quit smoking. The early Babylonian’s most popular resolution was to return
borrowed farm equipment.
The tradition of using a baby to signify the new year was begun in Greece around 600 BC. It
was their tradition at that time to celebrate their god of wine, Dionysus, by parading a baby in
a basket, representing the annual rebirth of that god as the spirit of fertility. Early Egyptians also
used a baby as a symbol of rebirth.
Although the early Christians denounced the practice as pagan, the popularity of the baby as a
symbol of rebirth forced the Church to re-evaluate its position.
The Church finally allowed its members to celebrate the new
year with a baby, which was to symbolize the birth of the baby
Jesus.
4. FOR LUCK IN THE NEW YEAR

Traditionally, it was thought that one could affect the luck
they would have throughout the coming year by what they did
or ate on the first day of the year. For that reason, it has become
common for folks to celebrate the first few minutes of a brand
new year in the company of family and friends. Parties often last
into the middle of the night after the ringing in of a new year.

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 55

55

2/4/14 2:02 PM

--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | top-right: small black-and-white illustration of an ancient Babylonian ziggurat with a crowd.]
[IMAGE 2 | bottom-right: small black-and-white photo of a classical marble statue of a bearded man holding a baby.]
