It was once believed that the first visitor on New Year’s Day would bring either good luck or bad
luck the rest of the year. It was particularly lucky if that visitor happened to be a tall dark-haired
man. Traditional New Year foods are also thought to bring luck.
Many cultures believe that anything in the shape of a ring is good luck, because it symbolizes
“coming full circle,” completing a year’s cycle. For that reason, the Dutch believe that eating
donuts on New Year’s Day will bring good fortune.
Other parts of the world celebrate the new year by consuming black-eyed peas or lentils. These
legumes are typically accompanied by either hog jowls or ham. Black-eyed peas and other legumes
have been considered good luck in many cultures. The hog, and thus its meat, is considered
lucky because it symbolizes prosperity. Cablackboardage is another “good luck” vegetable that
is consumed on New Year’s Day by many. Cablackboardage leaves are also considered a sign of
prosperity, being representative of paper currency. In some regions, rice is a lucky food that is
eaten on New Year’s Day.
5. AULD LANG SYNE

The song, “Auld Lang Syne,” playing in the background,
is sung at the stroke of midnight in almost every Englishspeaking country in the world to bring in the new year. At
least partially written by Robert Burns in the 1700’s, it was
first published in 1796 after Burns’ death (see references
to Robert Burns in the Cultural Corner of TB Unit 2) . Early
variations of the song were sung prior to 1700 and inspired
Burns to produce the modern rendition. An old Scotch
tune, “Auld Lang Syne” literally means “old long ago,” or simply, “the good old days”.
From: www.wilstar.com
RECOMMENDED FILM

Whether you and your pupils believe or not in Father Christmas, you should all see the following
film, which came out in 2004. It is warm, moving and great fun to watch. It makes children
wonder about Father Christmas and it makes all adults relive their childhood Christmas days.

The Polar Express
The Plot: Santa Claus does not exist. Or does he? For one doubting boy (voice of Daryl Sabara
and Tom Hanks), an astonishing event occurs. Late on Christmas Eve night, he lies in bed hoping
to hear the sound of reindeer bells from Santa’s sleigh. When to his surprise, a steam engine’s roar
and whistle can be heard outside his window. The conductor (voice of Tom Hanks) invites him on
board to take an extraordinary journey to the North Pole with many other pyjama-clad children.
There, he receives an extraordinary gift only those who still believe in Santa can experience.
From: www.IMDB.com
A Viewer Comment: “The Polar Express delivered me all the way back to childhood and my
own faith in Santa Claus at the age of five. I could not only hear the bells, I could see his sleigh in
the night sky. Chris Van Allsburg is to be commended for writing an excellent fantasy and Tom
Hanks for conducting the wonder tour to beat them all. The special effects are just outstanding,
the story line credible and heartwarming. The characters are believable and utterly charming. The
children depicted are our own. I would recommend this film to any and all who love Christmas and
remember what it is to believe. The experience of watching makes you a participant, breathless
to see what comes next. I can hardly wait to view it on IMAX and am taking my entire family,
including seven grandchildren to the Tulsa Cinemark this season. Let’s hope we see more of this
quality venue in months and years to come.”
Comment made by Mary McReynolds on www.IMDB. com

56

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 56

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM

--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | mid-right: small decorative plaque illustration reading 'For Auld Lang Syne', adorned with flowers and leaves.]
