information like this and they have an
extensive site with a very rich list of links.
• In small groups, ask the pupils to put all
their work on cardboard and present it to
the class.
• Do they know it’s Christmas: Set the scene
by thinking about countries like some in
Africa where people have very little in the
way of food, clothing and medicine.
• Get the pupils to work in small groups.
To help, try and get the pupils to think
of something practical. By giving a small
amount of money one can help a huge
amount overseas. Are there relief agencies
that are guaranteed to invest the money
wisely? Think about UNICEF.
•
There are charities in Athens and
Thessaloniki which distribute food and
clothing to refugees within these cities.
Do the children know about them?
• One example is on the following website:
http://www.caritas.gr/activities.html
B. PORTFOLIO

PB page: 58 / Time: 30 mins / TB
Introduction p. 14
Pupils work in small groups. There has to
be extensive research for the right photos.

54

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 54

If they find photos on Internet, can they be
printed out in colour (black and white will
be unattractive).
PB Appendix: p. 139
Extra Activity:“A Letter to Santa”
• A poem which spares a thought for the
under-privileged (see above: 2nd project).
• Each pupil might like to learn off by heart
two lines - the whole class can then recite
the poem!
CULTURAL CORNER

New Year Traditions (following page)
→ Cross-curricular link: HISTORY.
Because the Festive season also includes
New Year, the following is a passage that
describes the history of New Year and
traditions associated with this festivity. You
may want to ask the pupils whether they
have any other traditions which they know
about and which are not mentioned in the
passage.
Recommended film see p. 56.
→ Cross-curricular link: ARTS
The text describes a film “The Polar Express”
recommended for children during the
Christmas period. You will find most video
shops have this film.

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM

--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
