                                                                                                                       6
                     C LISTENING & WRITING

                     Listen to Mark and Dave talking about holiday places. Mark usually goes on holiday to Blackpool in
                     north-west England. Over the phone his friend Dave (from Brighton) is telling him to come on holiday
                     to Brighton. Mark then needs to tell his parents about Brighton. Write in the spaces below why,
                     according to Dave, Brighton is a much better holiday place than Blackpool.


               1.


               2.
                                                                                       Brighton pier



                                                           FOCUS

                      Study the following examples to see how we can compare two people, things or
                      places in English.

                      Books are cheap. Darts are cheaper than books.
                      NewYork is a big city. Los Angeles is bigger than NewYork.
                      It costs a lot of money to live in NewYork It costs more money to live in Los Angeles.
                      Playing video games is interesting. Reading books is more interesting than playing video games.




                     D SPEAKING
               Imagine you had been very lucky in a prize draw and you and your family had won a prize to go anywhere
               in Europe for one long weekend (3 days) with all expenses paid. For example, a weekend in Paris, incl.
               Eurodisney, or a weekend in Finland to see where Santa Claus lives or to a beautiful island in Greece. The
               prize cannot be exchanged and the holiday has to be taken. Where would you go and why?

                     1. Make a list where you categorize your 3 top destinations in order of preference. List
                        them in the following chart.
                     2. Compare with your other classmates and see if others share with you the same destinations–
                        share your thoughts about the places and compare and contrast.
                     3. Which destination comes out on top?


                                                                               Holiday Destinations
                                                              1.
                                                              2.
                                                              3.


                                                                                        Pupil’s
                                                                                         Pupil’sBook
                                                                                                 Book••UNIT  6 - • Lesson 1 / 75
                                                                                                        UNIT10




073-084 up.indd 75                                                                                                           22/9/2022 3:39:19 µµ


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | middle-right: Colour photo of Brighton pier at dusk stretching over the sea, captioned 'Brighton pier'.]
[IMAGE 2 | bottom-left: Colour photo of a Greek island harbour (white houses, windmills on a hill) beside blue sea, above the 'Holiday Destinations' table.]
Recurring small icons on this page: cassette + pencil icons at C heading (2); speech-bubble icon at D (1); GRAMMAR FOCUS magnifier graphic at middle-right (1).
