                     6
                    E    LIVING IN THE CITY OR IN THE COUNTRYSIDE?
                  Mark who lives in London is chatting on the Internet with his friend Steve, who lives on a farm about 50
                  miles from the city and with Kostas, who lives in Athens. Mark is worried about all the problems of living in
                  a big city. Read the chat conversation.




                     Mark: Steve, do you enjoy living in the countryside?
                     Steve: Not so much. I don’t go out much because my dad is always busy with the farm. I don’t go
                     out with friends, I never go to the cinema. All I do is spend time watching TV.
                     Mark: Maybe you are better off. It is not always safe to go out in London. It’s a lot safer where
                     you live.
                     Steve: Yes, but life is more boring here.
                     Mark: You breathe fresh air all the time. There is a lot of traffic where I live in London and so the
                     air is more polluted. Also your schools have fewer problems than our schools. We have a lot of
                     children who need to be helped by special teachers. Kostas, do you enjoy living in Athens?
                     Kostas: Yes, even if it is a big city, Athens is a safe city which has a lot to offer for children and
                     teenagers. I think living in Athens is a lot better than living in the countryside. In the countryside
                     you are cut off.


                  True or False. Circle the correct answer and discuss your answers with your partner. Do you agree with Mark?

                  Steve thinks living in the countryside is better than living in the city.                    T         F
                  Steve sees his friends very often.                                                           T         F
                  Mark thinks London is not very safe.                                                         T         F
                  Mark believes pollution is a problem in London.                                              T         F
                  Kostas thinks living in Athens is better than living
                                                                                                               T         F
                  in the countryside.




                    F SPEAKING: ROLE PLAY

                   Kostas and Mark are talking to each other and finding out more about each other’s cities. Imagine you are
                   Kostas and Mark is a classmate of yours. Each of you say two things which compare each other’s cities.

                  Ex. More people live in London than in Athens.


              76 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                       6-•- •Lesson
                                              Lesson11




10-0103.indb 76                                                                                                                   1/7/14 1:58 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | upper-middle, wide: Mock computer chat/email window ('New Message' with Send/Chat/Attach/Address/Fonts/Colors buttons) containing the Mark–Steve–Kostas dialogue about living in the city vs the countryside.]
Recurring small icons on this page: open-book icon at E heading (1); theatre-masks icon at F heading (1).
