                      Lesson 1                 THE PLACE WE LIVE IN
                  A LEAD-IN8
                                                                                                         Which is better?
              • Do you live in a city, a town or a village?                                           The city or the village?
              Do you like living there? Why?



                        Do you enjoy living
                       in the countryside?
                                                                How do you get
                            Yes, because my owner lets           to the park?
                                 me go everywhere!
                                                                         I hop into the back of a car and
                                                                            my owner drives me there.




                  B      READING & WRITING
                  Our 3 Net friends (Mark, Kostas and Nadine) are getting to know each other better. You are
                  interested in learning how they live and in comparing your life with theirs. Read what they say about
                  the places they live in and about where their parents work. Keep some notes and discuss things
                  with your classmates. Write your notes in the boxes below.



                      Mark: Hello there! As you both know, I live in London, a very big city.. My father is a shop owner and
                      he always goes to work on foot. His bookstore is in our neighbourhood. Lucky fellow......

                      Kostas: I live in Athens and our flat is in Nea Ionia, a suburb of Athens. My mum, who is a bank
                      clerk in the city centre, usually drives to work and it takes her over an hour to get there. She
                      doesn’t use public transport. I don’t think it’s a good idea she drives to work. And she has huge
                      problems in finding a parking place every day!

                      Nadine: Well, my family and I live in the centre of Marseilles, which is a big city in the south of
                      France. My parents work in a factory outside the city and they go to work by bus. Many of their
                      colleagues drive to work but it seems to me my parents are doing the right thing. It’s better to take
                      the bus - the traffic is so heavy!




              38 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 3 - • Lesson 1



10-0103.indb 38                                                                                                                  1/7/14 1:58 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
RECURRING ON THIS PAGE: reading book x1, writing pencil x1 (section B). (See file header for one-time description.)
[IMAGE 1 | top-right: Photo of a busy pedestrianised city street with shops and a bus; pink speech bubble reads 'Which is better? The city or the village?'. Narrow vertical profile photo of a girl holding her cheek attached at the right edge.]
[IMAGE 2 | middle-right: Small photo of an old stone village house with tiled roof and wooden balcony; illustrates 'the village/countryside'.]
[IMAGE 3 | middle-left: Cartoon of four dogs (brown, orange, grey, white) with two speech bubbles: orange pair reads 'Do you enjoy living in the countryside? Yes, because my owner lets me go everywhere!'; blue pair reads 'How do you get to the park? I hop into the back of a car and my owner drives me there.']
