                  Lesson 3          TALKING ABOUT A TOWN IN GREECE

                  A LEAD-IN 8
              Greece is not only Athens!
                                                              s to ria                                Ioann
              There are many beautiful
              places all over the country.                 Ka                                                     ina
              Look at the photos from
              travel office brochures. Are
              these towns in the north or
              south of Greece?
              Can you tell us some other
              towns in Greece and if they
              are in the north, south, east
              or west of the country.




                  B READING

                  Now read about one of the towns. Which town is this text about?

              The Location: “This town is situated in the north-west of Greece. It is a busy town where -120,000 people live.
              The town is built next to a lake called Pamvotida. In the middle of the lake there is a small island. It is the only
              island in a lake in Greece where people live.
              The Surroundings: Around the town and its lake there are high mountains. That is why it is quite cold and wet
              during winter. Τhere is snow on the mountains for over four months of the year.
              The Town Old and New: The town is over 15 centuries old and it has a beautiful old castle overlooking the
              lake. The view from its top is fantastic. There are many old houses inside the castle and life there is peaceful
              and quiet. There are also modern neighbourhoods, with blocks of flats, shops, cars and busy streets.”

                  The text above is divided into three paragraphs. Read it again and match the topics with the
                  paragraphs. You will understand the way we organize our text about a place.

              1. The old and the new parts of the town			                   a. paragraph 1
              2. Where the town is built				                                b. paragraph 2
              3. The environment surrounding the town		                     c. paragraph 3


              What information in the text helped you do the matching activity?


                                                                                            Pupil’s Book • UNIT 3 - • Lesson 3 / 45




10-0103.indb 45                                                                                                                       1/7/14 1:58 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
RECURRING ON THIS PAGE: reading book x1 (B). (See file header for one-time description.)
[IMAGE 1 | top-centre: Tilted travel-brochure photo labelled 'Kastoria' in white: lakeside town with red roofs around a lake and hills.]
[IMAGE 2 | top-right: Tilted travel-brochure photo labelled 'Ioannina' in blue: lake, green fields and hills with town behind. (In extraction the overlaid labels surface as fragments 'Ka...s to ria' and 'Ioann...ina'.)]
