                      3
                     E    GAME
                     Play with your partner. With small pieces of paper, make 5 role-play cards
                     each. On each card write:

               • 1. a place you visit
               • 2. why you go there
               • 3. how you get there

                     Ask your partner to choose one of your cards. You hold your card without your partner seeing it
                     and get your partner to ask you questions with yes/no answers to find the answers. Keep a score
                     to see how many questions each of you needs to arrive at the answers for all the cards. Then
                     exchange roles. The one with the least questions wins.


                                       You go to the supermarket.               No, I don’t./ Yes, I do.



                                         You go every Saturday.                 No, I don’t./ Yes, I do.



                                           You go shopping                      No, I don’t./ Yes, I do.
                                           with your mother.




                                           Expressing opinions - Making suggestions
                      Study the sentences to see how we can express opinion or make suggestions.
                      I think that driving to work costs a lot of money.
                      I don’t think that driving to work is a good idea. It is tiring!
                      It seems to me that walking to school is a very healthy habit.
                      In my opinion, going to work by bus is cheap and convenient.

                      Why don’t you use public transport instead?
                      How about walking to school rather than taking the bus?
                      Let’s all go to the city centre in the metro tomorrow!




                     F    WRITING: DO YOU LIKE THE PLACE YOU LIVE IN?

                     WWF (World Wildlife Fund) have an international campaign about how we can make our lives better.
                     They want children’s ideas, opinions and suggestions on problems in big cities. Discuss with your
                     partner; write some possible answers to the problems mentioned in the following leaflet. Exchange
                     ideas with other pairs in your class and see what they think. Use the expressions in the “Grammar
                     Focus” table above to help you.


               40 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 3 - • Lesson 1



037-048 up.indd 40                                                                                                       22/9/2022 3:33:00 µµ


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
RECURRING ON THIS PAGE: game die x1 (E), writing pencil x1 (F), Grammar Focus magnifier x1. (See file header for one-time description.)
[IMAGE 1 | top-right: Photo of a tall white Ferris wheel (observation wheel) against blue sky with buildings and grass below.]
[IMAGE 2 | middle: Cartoon dialogue scene: dark-haired girl (left) with three yellow speech ovals ('You go to the supermarket.', 'You go every Saturday.', 'You go shopping with your mother.') and blond boy (right) with three blue ovals ('No, I don't./ Yes, I do.' each).]
