                           3. Do you do your projects?
                              a. c always                 b. c sometimes                       c. c never

                           4. Do you follow your teacher’s advice?
                            a. c usually                  b. c seldom                          c. c sometimes

                           5. Do you ask your teacher to help you understand difficult things?
                            a. c sometimes               b. c seldom                         c. c never

                           6. How often do you look up things in dictionaries , encyclopedias,
                              the internet , biographies, etc.
                            a. c seldom                    b. c sometimes                    c. c usually

                           7. How often do you let your parents/sisters and brothers/friends do your
                              homework for you?
                             a. c never                   b. c often                        c. c sometimes

                           8. Do you watch TV late at night instead of going to bed?
                            a. c often                   b. c always                           c. c never




                  G     WRITING & SPEAKING
                  You will prepare a class survey. On a separate piece of paper

              1) Write down how many pupils in your classroom answered often /
                  usually / never / seldom / sometimes / always.
              2) Then in pairs, for each question, draw and colour a pie chart, like
                  the one on the right. The pie represents the whole class.
              3) What conclusions can you come to about the “personality”/profile of
                  your class?
              4) Discuss with your teacher about other charts you can use.



                  H    PORTFOLIO
              EITHER Imagine you are a reporter from the school newspaper. You are writing a similar interview with a
              famous person you like and admire, like the one in Lesson 2, page 30. It can be an interview with an athlete,
              a singer, an actor/ actress, a writer, a painter, etc.
              Write 4 or 5 questions and add the answers you got. Use magazines, newspapers, encyclopedias, the
              Internet, or the class books for your Greek lessons – eg. Anthologio for information.
              You can add drawings, magazine pictures or anything else that can make your writing look nice.

              OR Make a list of your good and bad habits. Think about school, home, friends, parents, pets. Make a list of them
              on a cardboard to put in the classroom. You can add that piece of writing in your portfolio.

                                                                                        Pupil’s
                                                                                         Pupil’sBook
                                                                                                 Book••UNIT               1 / 33
                                                                                                             2 - • Lesson 2
                                                                                                        UNIT10




10-0103.indb 33                                                                                                                    1/7/14 1:57 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | top: Continuation of the brown clipboard graphic holding questionnaire questions 3-8.]
[IMAGE 2 | bottom-right: Colour pie chart of class answers with slices labelled 'sometimes' (large blue), 'often' (yellow), 'never' (pink), 'always' (green), 'seldom' (lilac) and 'usually' (orange).]
[ICONS: 2 small activity icons (Writing+Speaking, Portfolio)]

