                                                                                                                                   1
                                                     Likes, Dislikes and Preferences
                     Study the following examples to remember how we express likes and dislikes
                     and learn how we can express preferences in English.

                         I like watching tennis on TV.                       I don’t really like playing chess.
                                                                             People hate walking in a big, noisy street/in
                         You like playing computer games.
                                                                             big noisy streets.
                                                                             He doesn’t usually like watching the news
                         She enjoys listening to her MP3 player.
                                                                             on TV.
                         I prefer table tennis to chess.
                         They prefer playing with my friends in the park to sitting at home watching TV.




                     F     SPEAKING

                     WE LIKE THE SAME THINGS - WE ARE GOING TO FORM A CLUB!
                     1. Work with your partner. Find 3 pastimes which you have in common.
                        Ask each other questions using the structures given above.
                     2. Find another 2-3 people in your class who have the same interests.
                     3. Get together with them and see whether you all want to form a club.
                     4. Decide what the aim of the club is. Is it to share news, to learn from
                        each other, to go play sports together? For example, if you have a
                        chess club you will be interested in playing together. How regularly
                                                                                                  The Children’s Art Village (“CAV”) is based
                        do you want to meet? Decide who is the secretary of the club.             in California. CAV helps children using art
                                                                                                  in orphanages throughout the world.
                     5. Present your club on a poster and stick it on the classroom wall.




                     G      WRITING
                     Now answer in full Connor’s e-mail in Activity C (p. 15). Give information about
                     your favourite free time activities. Say what you like or don’t like doing.




                                                                                               Pupil’s
                                                                                             Pupil’s   Book••UNIT
                                                                                                     Book          1 - • Lesson 1 / 17
                                                                                                              UNIT10




013-024 up.indd 17                                                                                                                       22/9/2022 3:27:05 µµ


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | middle-right: Colour photo of a smiling young Black girl drawing at a wooden school desk; caption reads 'The Children’s Art Village ("CAV") is based in California. CAV helps children using art in orphanages throughout the world.']
[IMAGE 2 | bottom-right: Small cartoon of a blond boy in green drawing on a pad.]
[ICONS: 1 'GRAMMAR FOCUS' magnifier badge top-right; 2 small activity icons (Speaking, Writing)]

