students use the computers to do their
schoolwork, saving paper by making all of
their changes before printing out the final
copy.
Also, because of computers, students can
use the Internet to tap the local newspaper,
Recycle City University, and research centers
and databases around the world. Getting
information through the computer saves
paper, and reduces energy consumption
and pollution by eliminating the need to
drive from place to place to get what they
need.
Background information
Forest fires in the Mediterranean:
A burning issue
The Mediterranean has been identified by
WWF as one of the most important regions
in the world for its outstanding biodiversity
features. Mediterranean forests, situated in
a transitional zone between the European,
African and Asian continents, are one of
the planet’s centres of plant diversity, with
25,000 floral species representing 10% of
the world’s flowering plants on just over
1.6% of the Earth’s surface. They also play
host to an amazing faunal diversity.
But the Mediterranean forests are also
under serious threat, with forest fires, in
most cases deliberately set, playing a major
role in their degradation and bringing about
huge social, economic and environmental
effects.
There is a strong need to put in place an
effective policy of prevention to address the
root causes of this phenomenon.
The issue
The Mediterranean region is heavily
affected by forest fires; every year more
than 50,000 fires burn an estimated

66

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 66

average of 600,000 - 800,000 hectares, an
area comparable to the island of Crete or
the island of Corsica, and equal to 1,3 – 1,7
% of the total Mediterranean forests.
While small-scale fires may be part of the
natural dynamics and the management of
the natural resources, large-scale forest fires
throughout the region have dramatically
increased during the last few decades,
mainly as a consequence of the rapid landuse changes, socio-economic conflicts and
competing interests characterising the
Mediterranean region in the last decades.
EU Mediterranean countries – Spain,
Portugal, Italy and Greece – have been
particularly affected: the average total burnt
area in these countries has quadrupled since
the 60’s.
Of all the forest fires in the Mediterranean,
human induced ones, mostly due to
deliberate lighting of forest fires and
negligence, account for more than 95%.
As a result of the intensification of forest
fires, the capacity of the Mediterranean
ecosystems to naturally regenerate in many
areas has been reduced, while extensive
areas are being affected by biodiversity loss,
soil erosion and water scarcity.
Indeed, forest fires aggravate soil erosion,
leading ultimately to desertification. This
also leads to huge economic costs.
The risk of forest fires is further aggravated
by the current climate change trend in
the Mediterranean region, which is also
reducing the capability of Mediterranean
forests to accommodate them.
Source:
www.panda.org/about_forest/
forestfires2003factfiles

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM

--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
