Unit 3 - Lesson 2 - Activity B (TB p. 40)

My town and an Indian village.
In my town we have lots of cars. There are fewer cars in an Indian village. It’s cold where
I live so we need heating. People wear more clothes in winter here in Greece. There are
many more shops and cafes and tavernas in my town than in an Indian village. We watch
a lot of television and so do the people in India. In India they have big families with lots of
children - there are less children in Greece.
Unit 4 - Lesson 1 - Activity A (TB p. 49)

It’s December 16th today and I feel great. I usually go to school but today I’m staying at
home. When the weather is good I do my homework in the afternoon and then go to
evening classes. I eat at 8 o’cloc. Today it’s snowing so I’m making a snowman with my
friends. We are also having a snowball fight.
Unit 4 - Lesson 1 - Activity B (TB p. 50)

Dear Santa, I’ve been a good girl and I have helped my parents all year. Bring me lots of
presents, especially a pair of skates and maybe a brand new bike.
Unit 4 - Lesson 2 - Activity A (TB p. 51)

1. This drink tastes good
2. I feel tired
3. This soup smells good
4. This book looks interesting
Unit 5 - Lesson 1 - Activity D (TB p. 60)

Georgia is going to visit the environmental centre in Arcturos. She’s going to take some
photos and she’s going to ask the volunteers for information. She’s going to see some
bears. She wants to adopt a bear. She’s also going to buy a T-shirt so she can show her
friends she loves bears.
Unit 6 - Lesson 1 - Activity A (TB p. 68)

Billy’s bag is larger than Jim’s bag
Yes, but Jim’s bag is lighter than Billy’s
Billy’s plane is slow and can fly on water.
Yes, but Jim’s plane is a jet and is much faster.
Billy’s ball is a football and it bounces less than Jim’s.
Of course, that’s becuase Jim’s ball is a basketball - it must bouces more.
Billy’s car is hotter in the summer because it’s closed and it doesn’t have any air
conditioninig.
Jim’s is cooler because it has an open top.
Billy’s computer is more expensive because it’s a laptop.
Jim’s computer is cheaper because it’s a desktop.
Unit 6 - Lesson 1 - Activity B (TB p. 69)

I like the Smart more than the Porsche. It’s smaller than the Porsche so it uses less petrol/
fuel. You can park it more easily than the Porsche. It’s more fun to drive than the Porsche.
The Smart is the best car to have in a big city like Athens.
Unit 6 - Lesson 1 - Activity C (TB p. 69)

This car does not need a presentation. It’s a Volkswagen Golf. It looks attractive and it is a
very solid cat that will last for many years. It is very comfortable. You can get in with many
different size engines. The fastets is the Golf GTI and its top speed is 230 km per hour.
This has a 2-litre engine. The basic model is the 1,4 litre engine and this is a good family
car, which does not use a lot of petrol. I recommend the Golf to everyone.
126

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 126

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
