Unit 6 - Lesson 1 - Activity D (TB p. 70)

Kostas: I’d like to go to a fast food place.
Parents: We want to go to a taverna.
Kostas: Why do you want to go there
Parents: Because the food is healthier.
Kostas: But the service is slow.
Parents: It’s not very slow!
Kostas: Also there isn’t any music that I like.
Parents: Don’t you like traditional Greek music?
Kostas: Yes, I do but I prefer rap.
Parents: After the taverna we can go and get an ice cream, how about that?
Kostas: Ok then, let’s go to a taverna.
Unit 6 - Lesson 2 - Activity B (TB p. 72)

Pupil A: I think we should take a bus and then take the ferry from Igoumenitsa. It’s fun
to travel by boat - you can swim in the pool, have lots to eat and relax. Also for all of us
it will be cheaper than by plane.
 upil B: Yes, but going by plane is a lot faster. We can save 1 day. We leave in the
P
morning and we are in Italy the same day, in the afternoon. Going by boat is too slow.
Unit 7 - Lesson 2 - Activity D (TB p. 85)

Narcissus was a very handsome young man. Many young people fell in love with him but
he showed no interest.
The beautiful young nymph Echo also fell in love with him but he rejected her as well.
She was so sad that she went to a lonely place and there died. All that remained of her
was her voice.
The lovers Narcissus had rejected called on the gods to punish Narcissus. The goods
punished him one hot day: Narcussus was looking into a stream and he fell deeply in love
with his own teflection. He did not stop looking at himself and then gradually died.
At the place where he died a white flower grew, which is called narcissus.
Unit 9 - Lesson 1 - Activity C (TB p. 102)

1. I’ve lived in Athens all my life.
2. I’ve been to Crete on holiday.
3. I’ve never been to Zagorochoria.
4. I’ve just learnt to swim.
5. I haven’t been to England yet.
Unit 10 - Lesson 2 - Activity A (TB p. 115)

The different objects, animals, people are diffucult to see. The feeling is very tragic. You
can see the suffering. In the top right there is a person with their arms in the air. In the
top left, there is a horse clearly in pain. In the centre there are faces which look like
ghosts. There is a feeling of pain and destruction everywhere.
Unit 10 - Lessson 2 - Activity B (TB p. 116)

1. The guide was rude and unprofessional.
2. The coach was old and it didn’t have any air-conditioning.
3. The hotel rooms were small and there was no room service in the hotel.
4. The meals were always the same.
The KEY for the Self Assessment Tests of the 10 units is in the pages 91-94 in
the Activity Book so the pupils can check their answers by themselves.

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 127

127

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
