ACTIVITY BOOK - OPEN-ENDED QUESTIONS: SAMPLE ANSWERS
Unit 1 - Lesson 1 - Activity A (TB p. 18)

a. I like dancing
b. I like painting
c. I enjoy reading
d. I like playing the violin
f. I enjoy going fishinig
e. I enjoy going to the ice-skating rink
Unit 2 - Lesson 1 - Activity A (TB p. 26)

1. Nadine gets up with her mum, at 7:30.
2. She has breakfast with her brother and mum and dad.
3. Then she gets dressed.
4. She goes to school with a school bus.
5. In the afternoon she does her homework.
6. She and her family have dinner at 6 pm.
Unit 2 - Lesson 1 - Activity B, no. 2 (TB p. 27)

1. I put on my school uniform before going down for breakfast.
2. With Mr. Higgins I learn to do magic spells with a wand.
3. At 10 am I sometimes study in the school library.
4. I usually feed the owl 3 times a day.
Unit 2 - Lesson 2 - Activity B (TB p. 29)

Hi I’m Irini. We have lessons form 8 am until after 1 pm. In the afternoon myh teacher gives
us a lot of homework. My mother who is also a teacher helps me with my homework.
My favourite subjects are maths and Greek language. I think I am the best in the class at
maths - I often get top marks. I am not very good at history and I dont enjoy the sciences.
When I grow up I want to work with computers.
Unit 2 - Lesson 2 - Activity E (TB p. 30)

I have got some good habits. I don’t eat too much chocolate or candies. I like to play
sports. I also go to bed early and get a good nights sleep. I also eat all the healthy food
my mum gives me.
But I have also got some bad habits. I listen to music too loud and I think this will not
be good for my ears and my hearing. I love hamburgers so sometimes I eat too many of
them. Fortunately I play lots of volleyball so that helps.
Unit 3 - Lesson 1 - Activity D (TB p. 37)

1. The answer is given in the PB.
2. Threre is a busy road outside the school and it is dangerous to cross it. Be careful about
crossing the road.
3. Pupils carry too many books to school. Carry few books.
Unit 3 - Lessson 2 - Activity A (TB p. 39)

Westminster:
Well, you go to Trafalgar Square and all the way down Whitehall till you get to

Westminster.
Green Park Tube Station:
Let me see. You walk down Pall Mall turn right into St. Jamess Street up to Piccadilly, then
left to Green Park tube station.
Piccadilly:
Well, to get to Piccadilly you all you do is walk up Haymarket.

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 125

125

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
