              APPENDIX                                                                           It’s your choice!


                      UNIT 5

                                                                   LESSON 2
              MActivity A.
              Students work in pairs. Each pair should decide how they can organize a small project to inform pupils in
              other schools around the world about environmental problems in our town/city/country. You must think of 2
              or 3 activities that you can prepare with your partner and make a list. Think of using the Internet – email or
              chat room – sending photographs, preparing a small video, drawings, recommending relevant websites or
              books in English, preparing a poster or a leaflet, etc. You’ve only got 3 days to prepare your project. Discuss
              with your partner:
              a) Which problem(s)?
              b) Which activities and when? (Use the diary below) , and finally,
              c) Before you start tell the rest of the class about your project.

                                                       Ideas for organizing activities:
              aProduce leaflets or brochures to inform people
              aProduce posters for the school or other public places in your area
              aOrganize an exhibition with drawings showing the problem
              aCollect articles, posters, pictures and other material relevant to the problem
               of excess rubbish and recycling
              aUse material that can be recycled to make new objects and present them
              aPrepare a school newspaper
              aPrepare an exhibition of photographs on the problem
              aPrepare a small video
              aOrganize an exhibition with all the material collected and give a talk or ask some
               expert give a presentation



                                             Relevant sources and websites for the Unit
                  Websites
                  www.wwf.gr/index.php aThe official site of WWF Hellas with useful advice on recycling.
                  www.greenpeace.gr aThe official site of Greenpeace in Greece.
                  www.epa.gov/recyclecity/ aFull of activities and games for children that develop the idea of saving energy
                  and reducing waste.
                  https://www.glassrecycle.co.uk/ aPupil-friendly activities and info about glass ( history- production- reason
                  for recycling).
                  Recycling colouring Book for Kids.
                  www.recyclezone.org.uk aSite for schools, children and teachers with information on the 3Rs: reduce,
                  reuse and recycle. It includes games, practical activities and teacher-specific information.
                  Greek e-magazine on ecology.



              140 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                        5 - Appendix
                                            - • Lesson•1Lesson 2




133-168 UP.indd 140                                                                                                           26/11/2024 2:25:10 µµ


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | middle-right: blue FEE (Foundation for Environmental Education) logo with green globe.]
[IMAGE 2 | bottom-right (small): cartoon desktop computer icon.]
