                                                                                                    It’s your choice!

                   Fish and chips
                   Fish and chips is the classic English take-away food and the
                   traditional England’s national food. The fish is fried and eaten
                   with potato chips. Traditionally it was eaten using your fingers,
                   but today small wooden forks are provided.

                   Post box
                   A red cylindrical metal box put in public places in which people
                   put the letters they want to send.




                   Prince Charles
                   Prince Charles, the Prince of Wales, is the eldest son of Queen
                   Elizabeth. He was born in 1948 and he is going to be king one
                   day. He loves gardening, sports and painting. He has two sons,
                   Prince William and Prince Harry. He is first in line to the British
                   throne.




                      UNIT 2

                                                                  LESSON 3

              MActivity A.

                                                       DOs and DON’Ts in England
                    0 Do stand in line
                    In England people like to form queues and wait patiently for their turn to come.
                    e.g. boarding a bus.

                    0 Do say “Excuse me”
                    When someone blocks your way, say “excuse me” and they will move out of your way.

                    0 Do say “Please” and “Thank you”.
                    It is very good manners to say “please” and ”thank you”. It is rude if you don’t.

                    0 Do remember your table manners.
                    Eat with a knife in your right hand and a fork in your left hand and don’t eat off someone else’s plate.




                                                                                   Pupil’s Book
                                                                                            Pupil’s
                                                                                                • UNIT
                                                                                                    Book2•- UNIT
                                                                                                            Appendix           1 / 135
                                                                                                                 10 - • Lesson 3




10-0103.indb 135                                                                                                                         1/7/14 1:59 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | top-right: photo of a fish-and-chips plate with a wine glass.]
[IMAGE 2 | middle-right: photo of a red British pillar post box.]
[IMAGE 3 | bottom-right: portrait photo of Prince Charles.]
