              APPENDIX                                                                      It’s your choice!


                                                                 PROJECTS

              0 You can work with other pupils and borrow another book from the school library. You can read it and then
              write a small summary of the story. It can be put in the book corner board in your classroom or the school
              newspaper. Then your classmates will be able to know more things about this book and read it themselves.
              0 Make a list of Easter symbols throughout the world. Use the Internet, encyclopaedias, books or other
              sources of information. List your findings in a chart.
              0 Have traditional customs changed over the years? Make a list of customs from Greece or any other
              country you know well and next to this write whether these customs have changed in recent years. List what
              you have discovered in a chart.




                                             Holidays & Traditions
                                                              Easter in Norway
                   Easter in Norway is dominated by Easter chickens, Easter eggs in all colors and occasionally Easter
                   bunnies. Yellow chickens are everywhere at Easter time. Drawn chickens, plastic chickens, cotton
                   chickens, chickens made of all sorts of materials can be seen in private homes, shop windows,
                   newspapers and magazines, on plastic bags and on television. It’s no wonder yellow has become
                   the color of Easter in Norway.
                   Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Easter Monday are national holidays in Norway. School children
                   however have 6 days of Easter vacation (not counting the weekends).
                   The Norwegians in general do not pay much attention to the religious aspect of Easter. Of course they
                   know the story, but only some will go to church services.

                   A typical 					                                     Easter chicken skiing -
                   Easter chicken with a 			                           just like the Norwegians
                   decorated Easter egg.			                            themselves do.




                            Easter holiday in the
                            mountains:
                            Skiing




              146 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                        8 - Appendix
                                            - • Lesson•1Lesson 1-3




10-0103.indb 146                                                                                                           1/7/14 1:59 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | middle: child drawing of a yellow Easter chicken with a decorated egg; caption "A typical Easter chicken...".]
[IMAGE 2 | middle-right: child drawing of a skiing Easter chicken with a sun; caption "Easter chicken skiing...".]
[IMAGE 3 | bottom: photo of three people skiing in snowy mountains; caption "Easter holiday in the mountains: Skiing".]
Decoration (not IMAGES): Easter-egg and daisy footer.
