              APPENDIX                                                                        It’s your choice!


                                                                   PROJECTS


              EITHER Collect similar information about Greece, or any other country
              you are interested in or you come from. You may use encyclopedias,
              Geography books, tourist guides, web sites or anything else you find
              useful. Present the information in class with pictures of the country and
              some short texts giving basic information about this country (You may use
              text from p. 22 for help).
              OR Together with your group members try to collect labels or boxes from
              various products we can find at the supermarket. Then stick them
              on a cardboard writing down the country of origin and draw the map or
              flag of this country. Have a look at your Geography book and write some
              phrases or words in the language of this country. You can add any other information you find suitable for a good
              presentation of this/these countries.




                   Symbols of Great Britain


                   Black cab
                   The black cabs (taxis) are a characteristic feature of London.
                   They are being modernized but they keep the same shape and
                   colour because they are classic.

                   Coat of Arms
                   A coat of arms is a set of pictures painted on a shield, which
                   represent a family or a town. The Royal Coat of Arms of the
                   United Kingdom is a shield divided in four parts. A lion supports
                   the shield on the left and a unicorn on the right. On top of the
                   shield we can see the Royal Crown.

                   Cricket
                   Cricket is England’s national sport, but it is not as popular
                   as football. It is played in the country on Sundays from April
                   to August. It is played by two teams of 11 players each. The
                   players hold a bat with which they hit a ball.

                   Cup of tea
                   The afternoon tea is a tradition in England, although people
                   today do not have time for tea at home. In fact, it is a small
                   meal which consists of tea or coffee and scones (small cakes),
                   sandwiches and pastries.




              134 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10- Appendix
                                            - • Lesson•1Lesson 3




10-0103.indb 134                                                                                                                 1/7/14 1:59 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | top-right: photo of a small girl holding a box of Carr’s biscuits.]
[IMAGE 2 | middle-right: photo of a London black cab with a "completely London" advert.]
[IMAGE 3 | middle-right: Royal Coat of Arms line drawing (shield with lion and unicorn, royal crown).]
[IMAGE 4 | lower-right: cricket match photo (batsman, wicket-keeper, fielder).]
[IMAGE 5 | bottom-right: photo of a cup of tea with a plate of biscuits and scones.]
