Post-listening
In pairs the pupils check their choices.
In groups of 3 or 4 they form the main idea each picture represents and offer more
suggestions. One pupil from each group reports to the class.
Possible outcome:
(picture b) Plastic bags destroy the environment. We must use paper bags.
(picture d) Buy products with the recycle sign. We protect the Earth.
GRAMMAR FOCUS

(Ref. METHODOLOGICAL TIPS p. 12) 

Time: 10 mins

In the grammar focus section the teacher is asked to use the PPP model of instruction.

Presentation of grammar structures and functions
The teacher asks the pupils to look at the structures in the section and reminds them of
any modals they had met in D’ class. The pupils are then asked, according to the inductive
model of learning, to elicit the rules for the use of the specific modals. They are helped by
the teacher with questions like:
• How are the modals formed? (modal + infinitive)
• How are they different from ordinary verbs? (they do not form all tenses)
• What function each one has? (used to express ability, obligation, advice)

Practice

The teacher encourages the pupils to elicit responses using the above structures. The
questionnaire on page 65 may prove very useful. Possible outcome:
• What must people do with their rubbish?
• We should use recycled paper in order to protect the trees.
• Students should watch environmental programmes on TV.
• We can take part in a protest against air pollution.

Production

The teacher writes the pupils’ responses on the board to use them later in their projects,
in the appropriate context.
E. PAIR OR GROUP WORK

(Ref. METHODOLOGICAL TIPS p. 11)

Time: 15 mins

• The teacher explains to the pupils that they do not have to finish the whole task together with
the creation of the poster on the same day. What they have to do first is to discuss on what to
include working in pairs or in groups of 4. This task (very similar to C. Speaking) presupposes
precise guidelines from the teacher. The teacher could also show the pupils other posters
which might hang up on the walls and explain how to make it attractive and presentable. The
most competent pupils, those who are good at drawing or at team coordinating might be the
“leaders” of a group. The pupils have to decide on the ideas they are going to include and the
tasks each pupils is going to take up. The pictures on page 68 give some ideas for possible titles:

132

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 132

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGES 1-6 | bottom of page, two rows of three: Six small cartoon poster vignettes - a littered landscape, a protest dog holding a placard, a crying planet Earth, a bear, a loaded truck, and a couple on stairs.]
