A. LESSON PLAN FOR E CLASS ENGLISH (REF. UNIT 5 - LESSON 2)
Class: E (5th grade)
Level of students: A1 - Breakthrough stage (CEF)
Age: 10-11
Number of students in class: 20-30
Time available: 4 sessions-40 minutes each
Materials to be used: a questionnaire, a listening passage, a text:
			
adapted from www.panda.org
Class organization: individual, pair and group work
Methods to be used: inductive/task-based learning
Overall theme or topic planned: Let’s do it – Lesson 2 of Unit 5 – inviting pupils to take
action in order to save planet Earth.
Aims
Teaching aims: to invite pupils to revise the vocabulary on recycling and environmental issues
		
: to use modals can, must, should to express ability,
		
obligation and give advice
		
: to encourage pair and group work
		
: to invite pupils to prepare a presentation on a specific
		
topic using resources and following steps
Learning aims: to encourage pupils’ speaking skills
		
: to engage pupils in a problem-solving task
		
: to activate their background knowledge on the theme
		
: to sensitize pupils to environmental issues
		
: to help them develop critical thinking

CROSS-CURRICULAR APPROACH
The topic of environmental issues is presented, discussed and researched. The tasks are
based on students’ active cooperation aiming at their autonomous learning and at their
active participation in and outside the school.
A. Lead-in 8/ Presentation of the topic:

Time: 3 mins

Lesson 2 of Unit 5 comes as a sequence of Lesson 1, as it is based on the same topic:
Ready for action to reduce waste, to recycle and to save the planet. Therefore, the pupils
have already discussed these issues and have been exposed to the relevant vocabulary.
They have also used the Greenpeace website for more information, in order to fulfill the
tasks. Pupils are most of the times asked to do things, to organize campaigns, to present
their ideas to people and generally to imitate real life situations. Learning by doing i.e.
interacting in meaningful activities is what task-based learning is based on.
In Lesson 2 the teacher introduces the pupils to the new issues asking them:
“Do you remember Kostas’ class environmental project?” This question serves as a very
good reminder of what has already been discussed, of the vocabulary already used and
helps the teacher take the pupils to the next step and present the topic which is the pupils’
environmental attitude. Questions like
What do you do with your rubbish?
• Do you recycle paper at home or at school?
• Have you ever thought that the protection of the environment is a personal matter? make
pupils realise that people’s attitude against the environment is of paramount importance.
Thus, one of our learning aims, that of sensitizing pupils to environmental problems, is
fulfilled.
128

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 128

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
