Water pollution
Air pollution
Road safety instruction

Animals in Danger
Rubbish
Save the Forests

• The teacher sets a time limit for the preparation of the poster and moves around offering
any help needed. The use of the recently taught modals would be appropriate and the
teacher should remind the pupils of that. Arrangements should be made for one more
session so as to draw, cut, glue and do any handwriting to finish the poster.
F. READING & WRITING

(Ref. METHODOLOGICAL TIPS pp. 9 & 10)

Time: 20 mins

The task consists of two parts and it forms an integrated suggestion of the crosscurricular
approach to learning. It sensitizes students in every day multicultural issues, the pupils work
cooperatively on authentic material (adapted from the Net), the outcome is as important as the
action they take.

Pre-reading
• The pupils are invited to read only the title of the passage, look at the picture and guess
what the topic is going to be. They are, therefore, introduced to the idea that all the people
of the Mediterranean share the same environmental problems. If the pupils are not very sure
of which the countries of the Mediterranean are, the teacher uses a map to show them the
Mediterranean sea and the countries around it. Before going on reading the passage it would
be a good idea to revise the vocabulary related to countries, nationalities, geography, weather
etc. Also the teacher encourages pupils to speak and discuss any environmental problems of
the Mediterranean countries, i.e. let them talk about air pollution, climate changes, forest
destruction etc.

Whilst-reading
• The pupils read the passage and in pairs or groups they try to guess the meaning of the
Mediterranean Forests
The Mediterranean is one of the most important regions in the world for its
forests. These forests are situated in an area between the European, African and
Asian continents and are very important for their biodiversity features – plants
and animals.
But the Mediterranean forests are under threat. One of the most serious
threats is fires. This has caused serious problems in the area during
the last few decades. Other general threats to Mediterranean forests are:
• Climate change
• Droughts and floodings
• Extensive building development
• Atmospheric pollution

unknown words.
• The words given – most of them unknown – are very important and useful in order to
describe the problem. The pictures which follow add some more clues to the main issue.

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 133

133

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | lower box, right side: Small tree illustration inside the shaded 'Mediterranean Forests' text box.]
