who got a high score, trying to raise pupils’ awareness about environmental issues.
C. SPEAKING & WRITING

(Ref. METHODOLOGICAL TIPS pp. 10 & 11)

Time: 15 mins

This task does not require any use of specific linguistic forms, it is open for pupils to
organize and therefore not easy for the teacher to handle. The pupils should be given
precise directions. A crucial matter here is time limit, which for young learners forms a
difficulty they have to overcome. In order to do this, they develop the appropriate strategies
(note taking, diagrams, use of known vocabulary etc.) so as to gain time. Of course they
very often use their mother tongue as well, but banning mother-tongue use altogether
might not be advisable. Weaker students often tend to stop speaking. Pupils should be
made to realise that they use English for communication purposes and that is what they
must try to do. Encourage them to experiment with the L2 and use the L1 only to explain
something complex that the other pupils might not understand.
Working in pairs or groups here helps the teacher manage classroom interaction so as
to offer opportunities for all the pupils to use their limited language and to create a more
effective learning environment. In group work there could be one “chairperson” who
will lead the discussion and will ensure that each partner gets time to contribute to the
conversation. Pair work, on the other hand, provides a more “private” setting for shier
pupils to speak.

Pre-speaking
The teacher tells the pupils that they do not have to do the project right now. They only
have to prepare two or three activities in order to inform pupils in other schools about the
environmental problems in their area. They should think of what problems to talk about,
what ways they will use to present them and what actions they are thinking of taking. The
questions given in the SB will help the pupils organize their work and develop their critical
thinking so as to decide which problems are the most important.

Whilst-speaking
The teacher ckecks that the pairs or groups are formed and goes around so as to help
pupils with the L2 and encourages them to use already known vocabulary. The pupils
develop their speaking skills in order to handle a problem-solving task. Time, as mentioned
before, is important, so the teacher makes clear that they have only three days to prepare
the project. This makes pupils concentrate and collaborate so as to present an outcome in
time.

Post-speaking
It is now time for pupils to present their work in class. They must explain what the targets
of their campaign are and what they expect to achieve. Pupils may put the targets and their
expectations on the board. This way, they make peer discussion easier. The teacher can
promote the conversation with questions like:
• What is the aim of your campaign?
• What do you expect to achieve?
• Do you think that people will change their habits?
• What means are you going to use to make your problems known?
• For an alternative speaking task with a crosscurricular approach teachers may use the
ideas, the Internet sites and the relevant books and periodicals suggested on page 135
of the Appendix. It would be advisable to introduce pupils to the suggested material,
although more time might be needed. The teacher should give precise directions on
how to use the Internet, books and other school resources and set clearly that the pupils
are expected to cooperate and make some small scale research. Cooperation between
teachers of different subjects stimulates pupils and teachers alike. The pupils work in
130

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 130

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
