Italy

Lebanon

People cause
fires

Violence and war
destroys the natural
environment

Greece

Turkey

Building development
threatens
forests

Too much lumbering
reduces forests

Post-reading and Writing
• At that level the post-reading stage coincides with the writing stage. The pupils have read
the passage and the picture captions and they are asked to make a list of possible solutions
to these problems. They work in pairs and, using the L2 and the relevant vocabulary, try
to come to solutions concerning the environmental problems the Mediterranean countries
face. They develop their critical thinking, they practise speaking skills and vocabulary and
at the same time they raise their awareness of the serious environmental problems.
• The teacher encourages the pupils to make a list of the problems and the suggested
solutions. Then, the findings are presented in class and are compared with other pupils’
suggestions.

The crosscurricular approach
Several projects can be conducted based on group work:
1. The pupils could use the relevant site [www.panda.org]and the school library to read
more on the topic and collect information. Then, they could make posters to hang on
the walls and leaflets to hand out to their fellow students.
2. The teacher of English could collaborate with the teachers of Chemistry, Biology and
Geography so as to offer a model lesson based on the cross-curricular approach to
teaching. Photographs, maps and designs could be used to explain how pollution
works, what the acid rain is and how the sea and the fish are polluted and destroyed.
3. Exchange visits could be organized between Mediterranean schools from countries
which belong to the European Union through a European Mobility Programme.
BIBLIOGRAPHY

Chryshochoos, J. Chryshochoos, N. and I. Thompson (2002) The methodology of the
teaching of English as a foreign language with reference to the crosscurricular approach
and task-based learning, Athens: The Pedagogical Institute.
Common European Framework of Reference for Languages: Learning, Teaching, Assessment
(2001), Cambridge:CUP
Δενδρινού, Β. Τριανταφύλλου, Τ. Ταγλίδης, Α. Κοσοβίτσα, Κ. Κυνηγού, Ι. Λιάρου, Ε.
Μουζεκίτη, Α. και Μ. Σεπυργιώτη (1997) Ενιαίο Εξαετές Αναλυτικό Πρόγραμμα για τη
Διδασκαλία της Αγγλικής Γλώσσας (Δ’ Δημοτικού – Γ’ Γυμνασίου) Αθήνα: Παιδαγωγικό
Ινστιτούτο
134

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 134

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | top-left: Photograph of a forest fire in Italy, captioned 'People cause fires'.]
[IMAGE 2 | top-right: Photograph of explosion smoke rising over a town in Lebanon, captioned on war destroying the environment.]
[IMAGE 3 | middle-left: Photograph of a hillside building development in Greece, captioned as threatening forests.]
[IMAGE 4 | middle-right: Photograph of a dense forest in Turkey, captioned on lumbering reducing forests.]
