groups and get ready to present the outcome of their research.
D. LISTENING

(Ref. METHODOLOGICAL TIPS p. 10)

Time: 15 mins

Pre-listening
• The teacher reads the instructions and explains what a summit meeting for the environment
is:
- Important people from different countries around the world meet and discuss ways of
protecting the environment. The participating countries decide whether or not they will
sign and respect the agreement.
• The teacher asks the pupils to guess what the passage is going to be about.
• The teacher is also given a chance to review once more the relevant vocabulary together
with the words of the items pictured on page 67.

Words like
to recycle
plastic bag			
to protest
cloth bag			
to reuse
cardboard box			
recyclable			recycle symbol
ecological packaging
should be mentioned and pre-taught through the pictures.

Whilst-listening
The aim of this activity is listening for specific information. The teacher plays the tape/CD
– more than once if needed - and the pupils work individually and put a tick next to items
mentioned and a cross next to items not mentioned in the tape.
TAPESCRIPT
Activist: ...but of course we can make a real difference! Even children like you can take
action! For example, when you go shopping with your parents look for products that have less
packaging or use ecological packaging. You can check the packaging by reading the symbols.
Even better, you can also buy fresh, non-packaged produce. You can also ask your mum to
bring a cloth bag or reuse an old plastic bag to carry home your groceries and other shopping.
Why not ask for cardboard boxes at the supermarket? They can be reused for other purposes
or recycled.
And one more thing...when you shop, you should always look for products that can be
recycled – or have been recycled already. Look for the recycle symbol on the label.
Kostas: Do you really believe that we can make older people listen to us? But......( fading out)
Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 131

131

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGES 1-8 | middle of page, two rows: Eight small reference photographs - an anti-litter poster, a black rubbish bag, an open cardboard box, a cartoon boy labelled Kostas, a recycle symbol, a no-litter sign, a street protest banner with a Greek sign, and a pile of fresh vegetables.]
