fierceness of their army and their hierarchical
organization, they became the largest Native
American society. The height of their reign
in the 15th century came to a brutal end in
1535 when the Spanish conquistadors took
over their territory.
The highest point in an Inca village
was reserved for religious purposes. This
point was the closest to the sun, which
represented their major god, Inti, the Sun
God. The Sun Temple, located in Machu
Picchu, Peru, was a religious calendar that
marked the winter and summer solstices.
The Inca were not only fierce conquerors
but they also had a violent punishment
system. If someone stole or murdered, they
were thrown off a cliff, hands cut off or
eyes cut out, or hung up to starve to de ath.
Prisons were of no use because punishment
usually consisted of death.
The Incas had an army which consisted
of 40,000 people. The Spanish army in
the Americas, which was commanded by
Francisco Pizarro, had only 180 people.
How could an Army of only 180 defeat an
army of 40,000 men? There are three main
reasons for this:
1) Much of the Incan army died as a result
of smallpox, which was carried to them via
the Spanish Conquistadors. 2) The Spanish
Conquistadors were able to convince other
tribes, already under Inca rule, to side with
them and overthrow the Inca Empire. 3)
The weapons used by Inca warriors, though
effective in tribal warfare, were no match
for the Spanish arms.
By 1535, the Inca society was completely
overthrown, and Pizzaro moved the capital
from Cuzco to Lima.

The Aztecs/Mexicas

embarked
on
a
period of
wandering
and
in
the 13th
century
settled in
the central
basin
of
México.
Continually dislodged by the small citystates that fought one another in shifting
alliances, the Aztecs finally found refuge on
small islands in Lake Texcoco where, in 1325,
they founded the town of TENOCHTITLAN
(modern-day Mexico City). The term Aztec,
originally associated with the migrant
Mexica, is today a collective term, applied
to all the peoples linked by trade, custom,
religion, and language to these founders.
Fearless warriors and pragmatic builders,
the Aztecs created an empire during the
15th century that was surpassed in size in
the Americas only by that of the Inca in
Peru.
The yearly round of rites and ceremonies in
the cities of Tenochtitlan and neighbouring
Tetzcoco, and their symbolic art and
architecture, gave expression to an ancient
awareness of the interdependence of
nature and humanity.
The Aztecs remain the most extensively
documented of all Amerindian civilizations
at the time of European contact in the
16th century. Spanish friars, soldiers, and
historians and scholars of Indian or mixed
descent left invaluable records of all aspects
of life. These ethno historic sources, linked

The Aztecs/Mexicas were the native
American people who dominated northern
México at the time of the Spanish conquest
led by Hernan CORTES in the early 16th
century. According to their own legends,
they originated from a place called Aztlan,
somewhere in north or northwest Mexico.
Sometime in the 12th century they

118

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 118

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | top-right: Boxed 'Aztecs' title graphic containing a canoe paddler, a serpent-head motif and a medallion.]
[IMAGE 2 | bottom-right: Grey-scale map of Mexico and Central America showing the Extent of the Aztec Empire.]
