                      Lesson 3                ALEXANDER THE GREAT

                    A     WHY WAS HE “THE GREAT”?
                  Mark asked Kostas why Alexander was such a great leader. Kostas found this text.
                  Alexander was born in 356 BC in Pella, Macedonia to King Philip II. At 20, after his father’s murder, he became
                  king. From the age of 22 until his death at 33 he conquered most of the known world, reaching as far as India.
                  1. The Persians were his major enemy. They were very strong in sea power. Alexander did not have a strong
                      navy. He was afraid of the Persian navy. In order to stop the Persian navy he did not attack the ships. Instead
                      he destroyed their ports.
                  2. In the battle of the river Issus, he did not feel strong. So he changed tactics. He himself led a focussed
                      attack on Darius, the Persian king. Darius’s personal guard did not hold the attack. Darius withdrew and
                      his troops followed.
                  3. Alexander wanted to capture Tyre, a city on an island very near to the coast of today’s Lebanon. Tyre
                      was very difficult to conquer. After several months of attack by sea Alexander changed tactics. He built a
                      causeway. This way his troops marched up to the walls. They used land attack tactics Tyre was captured
                      soon afterwards.
                  4. Alexander wanted to control the lands he had conquered. In order to do so, he told his troops to live there.
                      This way the ancient Greek culture and language spread to those lands.
                  Choose one of the following statements which show Alexander was a great leader. Explain why.
                  a. 
                     Alexander did not have a navy.
                     Nevertheless he stopped the
                     Persian navy.
                  b. At the battle of the River Issus he
                      defeated the Persians, who had a
                      bigger army.
                  c. 
                     Alexander captured the town of
                     Tyre, which everyone thought
                     impossible.
                  d. He controlled the lands he
                      conquered well.




                                                  CROSS CURRICULAR PROJECT

                  1. Do you remember a film about Alexander the Great? Was it a good representation of Alexander the Great
                      and his life? Discuss with your teacher and classmates. How about Robin Hood or King Arthur? Do the
                      films represent the historical truth?
                  2. Choose a personality from your History book and say what makes them unique.
                     a. Use other sources to find out more about them.
                     b. Work in groups and present the information on a cardboard using pictures and short texts giving an
                         outline of his/her life and deeds.
                     c. You may use the above text for guidance.


              94 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                       7-•- •Lesson
                                              Lesson31




10-0103.indb 94                                                                                                                         1/7/14 1:58 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | top-right: Small mosaic portrait of Alexander the Great in armour.]
[IMAGE 2 | middle, wide: Colour map of Alexander's empire from Macedonia to India/Pakistan with Greek place labels and a dashed campaign route.]
Recurring small icons on this page: none beyond the standard header.
