                     7
                     E   WRITING: JACK AND HIS GIRLFRIEND’S VERSION

                Compare and contrast the two versions and ﬁll in the chart below.


                                       The same                                           Different




                     F   GROUP WORK: GIVE YOUR OWN ENDING
                What do you think really happened? Does what Sue Adams say support Jack’s alibi?
                Is Jack innocent or guilty after all? Decide in groups and explain your arguments to
                the other groups.




                                 Simple Past – Negatives and Questions
                     Read and study the following sentences and learn how we can ask and answer questions in the
                     past.

                     Can you guess who he is: El Greco or Theophanis the Greek?
                     • Where was he born? He wasn’t born in Hania and he lived in Russia for 40 years.
                     • Was he a playwright? No, he was a painter!
                     • What did he paint? He painted religious images
                       in churches and portable icons.
                     • Did he live in Crete all his life? No, he lived in
                       Novgorod, in Volotov and in Moscow.
                     • Did he paint in a Byzantine style? Yes, his
                       pictures are famous for the peaceful look on
                       their faces and their heavenly characteristics.
                       His pupil Andrei Roublev was also a great
                       Byzantine painter.


                                                          Mount Athos




               92 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                        7-•- •Lesson
                                               Lesson21




085-096 up.indd 92                                                                                                 22/9/2022 3:42:53 µµ


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | bottom-right: Small colour photo of a Byzantine fresco (the Entombment, haloed figures around Christ's body with a cross above), captioned 'Mount Athos'.]
Recurring small icons on this page: pencil icon at E (1); group-faces icon + GRAMMAR FOCUS magnifier at F (2).
