                    Lesson 2               PAST EXPERIENCES

                  A    LET’S PLAY A DETECTIVE GAME 8
                  A picture is a thousand words. Look at the following picture and answer the questions below.



              1. Where?
              • Is this person in London or Athens?
              • Is this person at the Post Office
                or Police Station?

              2. What?
              • This man has done something wrong.
                What? Do you have any ideas?

              Find out more in the rest of this lesson!




                  B     WHAT JACK SMITH SAYS

                  You are watching a crime series on TV. The title of tonight’s episode is “The Alibi”. In this episode the
                  scene takes place at the Police Station in Central London. It is Tuesday, 5th May.
                  Yesterday there was a bank robbery at twenty past four in the afternoon. The policeman is
                  interrogating Jack Smith about the robbery.
                  Read the following sentences about what Jack Smith said he did between 3.30 and 5.00 pm. Jack
                  Smith often changes his mind!!


                                              1. He says he left the restaurant where he works at 3:30 pm.
                                              2. First he says he got back to the restaurant at 4:00, then he agrees it maybe
                                                  was 5:00.
                                              3. First he says he stayed in his boss’s brother’s office for 45 minutes; then he
                                                  agrees it maybe was only a couple of minutes.
                                              4. First he says he had a chat with his girlfriend in his boss’s brother’s office,
                                                  then he says he stayed with her for a long time out of the office, maybe for
                                                  1 hour.

                                               Then listen to the conversation between the policeman and Jack Smith.
                                               Are all the above sentences correct?


              90 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                       7-•- •Lesson
                                              Lesson21




10-0103.indb 90                                                                                                                     1/7/14 1:58 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | top-right: Circular black detective silhouette (deerstalker man smoking a pipe).]
[IMAGE 2 | middle-right: Cartoon of a man in blue shirt standing outside a yellow 'POLICE STATION' door under a street lamp.]
[IMAGE 3 | bottom-left: Colour photo of a uniformed policeman checking documents with a young man.]
Recurring small icons on this page: dice/game icon at A (1); cassette + book icons at B (2).
