project they would like to do.
• Ask them to decide on the theme and
who is going to do what. They should
keep notes.
• Remind them of structures and vocabulary
items they used before.
• Advise them to accept others’ ideas and
suggestions.
• Their works could be presented in class or
their written products could be displayed
on the classroom walls..
DRAMA

TB Introduction p. 11
Drama in the ELT classroom is not only
about the product (the performance at the
end of the year) but an integral part of the
process of language learning. “Dramatizing”
is the best term for referring to the process
of the learner’s active involvement in a
text.
Dramatization is useful as it offers:
- Motivation
- Familiar activities
- Confidence
- Group dynamics
- Catering for different learning styles
- Language personalization
- Language in context
- Cross-curricular content
- Change of the pace in the lesson
Making a Screen
This can be done in many ways, but one
of the easiest is as follows: Find an empty
cardboard box with a bottom as big as you’d
like your screen to be (say 12-by-18-inches,
or so!). Turn the box up side down and draw
a line (with a pencil, pen, or marker) 1 1/2
inches in from three edges and 2 1/2 inches
in from what will become the bottom edge
(see dotted line on Figure 1).
Cut the cardboard out from the middle
of the frame, using a utility knife, graphic
artist’s blade, or scissors (let the adult
handle the sharp tools!). Next, draw lines on
the sides of the box as shown in Figure 2.
Use a knife or scissors to cut along the lines
to remove the top, front, and bottom sides
of the box. (You now have a theater frame

with “wings!”)

Find a piece of white cloth - like a
handkerchief or a piece of an old sheet--big
enough to cover the opening in the frame.
Use masking tape or duct tape to fasten the
comers of the cloth over the back of the
frame opening (Figure 3). When the corners
are tight and there are no wrinkles, put tape
along all the edges. (It’s important to keep
the screen tight and wrinkle-free!)
Set your screen up on a table edge as
shown in Figure 4 and position a chair or
short table so you can set up an unshaded
light (or even a floodlight) as shown.

Making Shadow Puppets
These can be simple stick figures or
puppets with articulated limbs. For a stick
figure simply draw (or trace) the outline of
a character (a man with a cane, a woman
wearing a hat, a roaring lion, whatever)
onto thin but stiff cardboard, and then
cut the figure out. You can cut characters
out of magazine or newspaper photos and
trace them onto cardboard, but remember
to leave extensions below the feet for the
puppeteer to hold; or you can glue light
wooden extensions your cardboard puppets.
To make an articulated puppet, cut
out two cardboard versions of the same
character. Use the second one to cut out just

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 97

97

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | top-right: 'Figure 1' line drawing of an empty cardboard box marked with cutting lines for making a puppet-theatre frame.]
[IMAGE 2 | top-right, next to Figure 1: 'Figure 2' line drawing of the cardboard box after cutting, forming the open theatre frame.]
[IMAGE 3 | right column, middle: Larger 'Figure 3' top-down plan of the screen setup, labelled Cloth, Tape, Frame and Wing.]
