                 10
                  5
                     Study the following sentences to see how we can talk about
                     a) abilities
                     I can speak English.
                     Dogs and rhinos can swim but elephants or cats can’t.
                     We can plant trees to make our neighbourhood prettier.
                     b) obligations
                     People must obey the laws of their country.
                     We must do everything we can to help the Earth survive.
                     c) how we can give advice in English.
                     You should write on both sides of a piece of paper so as not to waste any paper.
                     What do you think I should do?
                     I think you should study harder to get better marks at school.
                     You shouldn’t be so rude to your granny, Clarice! She’s an elderly person and deserves your
                     respect!




                     E   PAIR OR GROUP WORK

                 • Work in pairs or groups and prepare posters using ideas from this unit or your own ideas about
                   environmental protection.

                 • Discuss with your fellow pupil or pupils and decide what to include in your posters and why.
                   You may use the expressions in the Grammar Focus to decide upon action that is absolutely
                   necessary (obligation) or action that is worth taking (advice).

                 • You could also talk about environmental problems shown in the pictures below.

                 • You could also use your ideas from Activity C.




               68 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                        5-•- •Lesson
                                               Lesson21




061-072 up.indd 68                                                                                                  22/9/2022 3:37:27 µµ


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
RECURRING ON THIS PAGE: Grammar Focus magnifier x1, group-faces icon x1 (E). (See file header for one-time description.)
[IMAGE 1 | bottom (six cartoons): Six small boxed cartoons with dotted caption lines: green frog/lizard among scattered litter; grey dog holding a wooden 'SAVE THE TREES' placard; crying blue Earth face with grey smoke clouds; smiling brown bear; small red car towing a trailer piled with grey rubbish sacks; smiling couple holding hands on a zebra crossing.]
