                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                                            5
                     D     ADVICE FOR THE HOME

                     • Now write down clearly as many of the recommendations you came up with in Activity C.
                     • Take them home and discuss with your family.
                     • By the end of the school year report back into class on how many of these you and your family
                     were able to do.

               M If you want to ﬁnd out more about recycling, check the websites included in the Appendix, page 140.



                      Study the following examples to see how we can talk about
                      A) PLANS AND INTENTIONS
                      Kostas is going to try to persuade his friends and neighbours to take recycling seriously.
                      What are you going to do to help save our planet?
                      I’m going to collect paper, glass, aluminium and plastic for recycling.
                      B) ARRANGEMENTS
                      We’re handing out leaﬂets and brochures tomorrow.
                      I’m meeting my schoolmates later on today. We’re going to the sports centre to play handball.
                      C) PREDICTIONS AND HYPOTHESES IN ENGLISH
                      I think I’ll try out your idea with my family.
                      I believe things will be much better in the future.
                      If my plan works out, we’ll manage to do something about our future on this planet.



               M You can also study DISCOVER GRAMMAR pp. 155-157.

                     E     LISTENING

                     Listen to what a British child is saying to the local reporter
                     about a campaign his school is organizing. As you listen, try to
                     take notes. In the spaces below write A. for intentions, B. for
                     plans, and C. their predictions. Discuss with your classmates
                     and decide if you could also do the same at your school.


                     1. ....... collect money for class trip.

                     2. ....... put bins to collect used paper

                     3. ....... bring old newspapers and magazines

                     4. ....... manage to get the money needed.



                                                                                             Pupil’s
                                                                                              Pupil’sBook
                                                                                                      Book••UNIT  5 - • Lesson 1 / 63
                                                                                                             UNIT10




061-072 up.indd 63                                                                                                                22/9/2022 3:38:05 µµ


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
RECURRING ON THIS PAGE: writing pencil x1 (D), listening cassette x1 (E), Grammar Focus magnifier x1. (See file header for one-time description.)
[IMAGE 1 | bottom-right: Photo of a blue recycling bin with a yellow-green Greek sticker ('... anakyklosi syskeuasion') showing packaging sorting pictograms (bottles, cartons, tins).]
