                   7
               M ACTIVITY B.
               • Read about the Minotaur. Some sentences are missing from this myth. Read the ones that follow
               and decide where they should go.


                   The Minotaur’s maze.
                   There are many strange creatures in the Greek myths. One of them is the Minotaur, which
                   had the body of a man and the head of a bull.
                   Every year seven youths and seven maidens were sent into the maze and starved to death,
                   or were eaten by the Minotaur. No-one had ever escaped.
                   When he arrived at Knossos the king’s daughter Ariadne fell in love with him and decided
                   to help him. Theseus found the Minotaur and killed him with his sword. Then he followed
                   the trail made by the string. Soon, he found the way out of the maze and back to Ariadne,
                   who waited for him.

                                                  Chattington, J., (2003) The Ancient Greeks, The British Museum



                          a. She gave him a large ball of string, which he unwound as he went into the maze.
                          b. One year the hero Theseus offered to be one of the seven.
                          c. The Minotaur lived in a huge maze at Knossos on the island of Crete.



               M ACTIVITY C.
               Here is Theseus with the Minotaur in the maze, but where is the string to show him how to get out?
               See if you can help him find the way by drawing in the correct path.




               46 / Activity Book • UNIT 7 • Lesson 2



10_0104_agglika.indd 46                                                                                             1/7/14 3:14 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | bottom-left: Greek black-figure plate showing Theseus and the Minotaur.]
[IMAGE 2 | bottom-mid: blue-and-white maze puzzle with an entry arrow.]
[IMAGE 3 | bottom-right, small: Minotaur line cartoon.]
