perfect is used.
• In the second part, because they talk about
“last year” they use the past simple.
ACTIVITY BOOK
UNIT 9 – LESSON 2 – ACTIVITY D – p. 59
KEY
1.have invited, 2. have reserved, 3. didn’t
know, have you seen, 4. bought, cost, 5.
have received, 6. saw, 7. bought, 8. have
you ever seen, 9. haven’t.
DIFFERENTIATED ACTIVITY p. 85
Same answers.
F. GAME					

Page: 117/ Time: 15
• The aim of the game is to promote good
actions amongst pupils in the classroom.
The activity can be played as a game
but, through the pupils being proud of
their achievements, it is also a way of
encouraging pupils to be more responsible
citizens both in the house and in society.
• To the teacher, pupils submit 2 questions
of things they would expect good pupils
and citizens to have done.
• The teacher puts all the questions together
and writes them up on the blackboard.
The pupil who has done the most should
be the Model Citizen of the Class.

Lesson 3 – NEWSPAPERS &
HEADLINES

A. LEAD-IN p. 118
Here are a few examples of interesting and
real newspaper headlines, which you might
want to share with your pupils:
Lack of Brains has hinderered research
Policeman have helped dog bite victim
Four have been battered in fish and chip
shop
Goldfish has been saved from drowing
Prisoners have escaped after execution.
B. PROJECT				

Page: 118 / Time: 20 & ongoing / TB
Introduction p. 15
MAKING A CLASS NEWSPAPER (IN
ENGLISH)
•
A list of useful tips is given in the

Differantiated Activity p. 149.
• Follow the tips given and the class should
be capable to putting together a paper.

CULTURAL CORNER

SOCIAL CUSTOMS IN DUBAI
What are local customs like?
Needless to say, many Arab customs are
very different from those in the west, and you
should be aware of what you’re expected to
do and not to do.
Although Arabs are understanding and
unlikely to take offence at social blunders,
provided they arise from ignorance rather than
malice, you will be made far more welcome if
you acquaint yourself with local ways of doing
things. It’s important to remember that you’re
a foreigner and you must therefore adapt
to the customs and social behaviour of the
region – not the other way round. In addition
to actions and behaviour which are regarded
as criminal, there are certain unwritten rules
that you must observe in order not to offend
local sensibilities.
Dress
There are two distinct types of women’s
clothing in the region: one for locals, the other
for expatriates. Outside the home, most Arab
women dress according to religious custom,
which means that they must cover most of
the body, from head to foot.
Arab men wear the thobe, a loose, anklelength robe made from fine white cotton (or
heavier woollen material in winter). There are
different styles of thobe, both in the cut of the
cloth and in the fastenings at the neck and
front. Perhaps the most distinctive are those
worn by the Omanis, which sport a tassel. The
thobe can be worn for all occasions, either
social or business. An outer cloak, the bisht,
is worn on formal occasions and can be very
costly, with border embroidery in gold thread
and the material itself of the finest quality.
The traditional, distinctive head covering is
the guthra, a white or red and white checkered
cloth held in place by the agal, a black ‘rope’
which was originally a camel tether. There are
different types of agal: for example, Qataris

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 105

105

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
