normally wear a more African-style headdress,
with two long ‘tails’ reaching down the back.
Arab men sometimes wear casual dress on
very informal occasions or at the beach, but
Saudi men are strongly encouraged to wear
national dress at all times.
Obviously, foreign men aren’t expected to
wear Arab garments, and western dress is the
norm. Men should avoid wearing shorts and
sleeveless shirts in the street, as is these are
regarded as excessively casual, although with
the development of tourism, this attitude is
softening. However, suits are rarely worn in the
Gulf, except for important business meetings
and related social events. Standard wear in
the office is a shirt (usually long-sleeved), tie
and lightweight trousers.
Terms of Address
The general formal address is ‘Sayyed’ (‘Sir’)
for a man or ‘Sayeeda’ (or ‘Sayedity’) for a
woman, followed by the person’s full name.
Arab women can be addressed as ‘Madame’.
Rulers are usually addressed as ‘Your
Highness’ (‘Your Majesty’ in the case of the
King of Saudi Arabia). Senior members of
ruling families are called ‘Your Excellency’
followed by ‘Sheikh’ (pronounced ‘shake’ and
not ‘sheek’) and their full name. Government
ministers of the ruling line are ‘Your Excellency,
Minister of . . .’ and other ministers simply
‘Your Excellency’ followed by the full name.
Lesser members of ruling families and those
in religious authority are addressed as ‘Sheikh’
followed by their full name.
Greetings
The most common greeting in the Gulf
is Salam alaykum (‘Peace be upon you’), to
which the correct reply is Wa alaykum as-salam
(‘And upon you be peace’). Other common
greetings and the accepted replies are:
Greeting

Meaning

Reply

Ahlan wa
sahlan

Hello

Ahlan bik

Sabah al-khayr

Good morning
/ afternoon

Sabah an-nur

Masa al-khayr

Good evening

Masa an-nur

106

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 106

Hands & Feet
You should accept refreshment whenever
it’s offered, but note that you should always
use your right hand for drinking and eating,
as the left hand is regarded as unclean (as
it’s used for ‘toilet purposes’). Similarly,
you should avoid showing the soles of your
shoes or feet, which implies that you think
the other person is ‘dirt’, which is obviously
highly offensive. You should therefore keep
your feet flat on the ground and not cross
your legs.
Other Dos and Don’ts
You should also heed the following
warnings:
• Don’t offer alcoholic drinks to an Arab,
unless you’re certain that he drinks
alcohol. This can cause great offence.
• Don’t walk on a prayer mat or in front of
any person at prayer and try not to stare
at people who are praying.
• Don’t try to enter a mosque without first
asking permission. It’s unlikely that you
will be allowed in.
• In Saudi Arabia, don’t try to enter the Holy
sites of the areas surrounding Mecca and
Medina. The roads are well signposted to
notify everybody of this restriction.
• Avoid putting an Arab in a position where
he might suffer a ‘loss of face’ in front of
other Arabs. He will appreciate this, if he
notices your action.
• Don’t beckon to people with a finger, as
this is considered particularly impolite.
Arabs might use such a gesture to
summon a dog.
• Avoid shouting and displays of aggression
or drunkenness at all times, as such
behaviour is rarely tolerated.
During Ramadan, don’t eat, drink or
•
smoke anywhere where you can be seen
by Muslims during the hours of daylight
and don’t engage in any noisy behaviour
or embrace or kiss anyone in public.
From www.justlanded.com

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
