Wallace, C. (1993) Reading, Oxford:OUP
White, G. (1998) Listening, Oxford:OUP
Willis, J. (1996) A Framework for Task-Based Learning, London: Longman

B. ENGLISH PROVERBS
1. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.

This means there are no one objective criteria to judge whether something is beautiful
– it is a personal opinion.
2. The best advice is found on the pillow.

Often a good night’s sleep gives you the solution to a difficult problem.
3. The bigger, the better.

The proverb is self-explanatory: if something is bigger then it is better.
4. A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.

It is better to have something now even if it may not be exactly what you wanted, rather
than risk waiting for it and maybe never getting anything.
5. Birds of a feather flock together.

This means that people who are similar tend to become friends, mean both in a positive
and negative way.
6. Curiosity killed the cat.

You need to be careful because sometimes being interested in some things may lead you
into situations which could be dangerous.
7. Don’t count your chickens before they hatch.

Don’t be happy about something which should happen. Wait until it really happens and
then celebrate.
8. Don’t cross your bridges before you get to them.

The message here is not to worry about situations until you get to them.
9. The early bird catches the worm.

When you have to do something you have a better chance of being successful if you start
straight away or anyway early.
10. Good things come in small packages.

This proverb indicates that sometimes the best things come in small quantities. It is the
opposite of The bigger the better!
11. The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.

People are never happy with what they have. They are always dreaming of better things.
However when they get the “better” it turns out to be the same or even worse.
12. Home is where the heart is.

It is not the house that makes home, it is your feelings about a person or a place.
13. It’s no use crying over spilled milk.

This indicates it is best not to get angry about something which has already happened but
went wrong. Nothing can be done to change it.
14. A kite rises against the wind.

If a person overcomes a difficult situation he becomes a better person.
15. Money doesn’t grow on trees.

This means you have to work hard to make money.
16. Necessity is the mother of invention.

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 135

135

2/4/14 2:02 PM



--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
