                       Lesson 2             WHAT AN EXPERIENCE!

                   A     LEAD-IN: GETTING SCARED 8
              Have you ever had experiences which have made you really scared? Can you describe one of these
              experiences?


                   B     READING

                   Read Mark, Kostas and Nadine’s chat on the Net. Mark writes about an experience he had when he
                   was walking home.
                   From the chat it is not very clear to you how things happened. For a better understanding, number
                   the pictures that follow 1-5 in the correct order.



                   Mark: Hi there! How is everything? Let me tell you about a nasty experience I had yesterday afternoon.

                   Nadine: What happened?

                   Mark: Someone scared me to death.

                   Kostas: What do you mean?

                   Mark: Someone who seemed to be sleeping inside a car suddenly sat up. She raised her hands as if
                          she wanted to attack me.

                   Nadine: What made that so scary?

                   Mark: When I first saw the person, she was so still she seemed dead.

                   Nadine: Where was the car?

                   Mark: Parked in the street on the way home.

                   Kostas: Was it during the day or at night?

                   Mark: It was in the afternoon.

                   Kostas: What was the car like? Was it old? Did it look strange?

                   Mark: No, it was a very nice new convertible.

                   Nadine: Did you know the person? Was it someone who played a trick on you?
                   Mark: Yeees, it was my cousin Susan and her sister. Silly girls! She and her sister had come to visit us.
                          Her sister was in the car and Susan was hiding behind some bushes. They played a trick on me
                          to scare me. I didn’t think it was very funny!




              102 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                        8-•- •Lesson
                                               Lesson21




10-0103.indb 102                                                                                                                1/7/14 1:58 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | middle-right: Small cartoon of a friendly ghost (Casper-like) flying, beside the chat text.]
The Mark/Kostas/Nadine chat occupies the lower beige box (text only, no further images).
Recurring small icons on this page: open-book icon at B READING heading (1).
