                     Lesson 3                   A TRADITIONAL STORY

                   A SPEAKING: EASTER DAY
               What would you say if someone asked you about Easter around the world? How much do you know about
               customs in Greece as well as in other countries?
               Let’s see what some students discovered about Easter customs
               working on a school project.
                                                                                     Kέρκυρα, το σπάσιμο των Mπότιδων
                   “ ...On Easter Day, all the people of this Greek village attended the mass and then walked to
                   the countryside. The Easter tables were set and the men were roasting the Easter lamb. They
                   sat down at the tables, offering Papa-Kyriakos, the priest, a special seat. And then the feast
                   began. They were eating happily, enjoying their Easter meal after a 40-day fast. Grown-ups
                   were drinking local wine and joking while children were playing and singing, wishing everybody
                   “Happy Easter”.
                   From “Eξοχική Λαμπρή” by Aλέξανδρος Παπαδιαμάντης

                   “...At Easter there were programs on the Norwegian TV of another kind: detective series.
                   Nobody quite knew why, but for some reason Easter is the most popular time for reading crime stories and detective novels
                   in Norway. The TV stations all had at least one detective series on the air at Easter. The series and the books were referred
                   to as “Easter-crime”.
                   Going skiing in the mountains is for many Norwegians what Easter holidays are all about. Getting away from the city, enjoying
                   the snow and the weather and not to mention getting a tan to show off when back at work are popular things to do during
                   the vacation....”		          From Olaf Amundsen, Norway


                   “...In many communities in Mexico, the full Passion Play is enacted from the Last Supper, the Betrayal, the Judgement, the
                   Procession of the 12 Stations of the Cross, the Crucifixion and finally, the Resurrection. The enactments are often nicely
                   staged, costumed and acted, with participants preparing for their roles for nearly the full year leading up to Semana Santa
                   (Holy Week)....”		                From Esther Martinez, Mexico City


                   Now discuss for a few minutes with your partner. Refer to the customs mentioned in the texts
                   above and which you found were different from those in your country. Then talk about any other
                   Easter customs you may know about.
                   Look at Appendix, pp. 146-148                    COUNTRY          SIMILARITIES      DIFFERENCES
                   more information on Easter                       Greece
                   customs in other countries.
                                                                    Norway
                   Report to the class.
                                                                    Mexico


                                                    CROSS CURRICULAR PROJECT

               • Now, work in groups of 3-4 pupils and make a story of your own. Imagine that last Easter you visited one
               of the three countries mentioned above. When you came back you wanted to write this story and send it to
               another friend who lives in Australia. Can you agree with your partners and write what you saw and did in the
               country you visited?
               • Look at the Appendix, page 148, and try and memorize as many “Happy Easter” phrases as you can in
               different languages.


              106 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                        8-•- •Lesson
                                               Lesson31




10-0103.indb 106                                                                                                                                   1/7/14 1:58 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | middle-right: Colour photo of a Corfu building with crowds on balconies throwing red pots, captioned in Greek 'Kérkyra, to spásimo ton Botídon' (Corfu, the breaking of the Botides).]
Recurring small icons on this page: speech-bubble + book icons at A (2).
