                   F    SPEAKING: PART OF A STORY
                   Look at the following pictures. They give you part of a story. Work in groups and tell the story,
                   giving your own ending to it. Then share your stories with the other groups.




              M If you find this activity too easy or too difficult, go to Appendix, page 145, Activity A.

                   G    WRITE A SHORT STORY
              You have decided to enter a short-story competition organised by an international magazine for young
              readers.

                   1. Work with your partners.
                   2. Use all the ideas you came up with in the Speaking task above to write your short story.
                   3. Remember to use linking words or phrases, such as First, Then, After that, Finally, As soon as,
                       While, When etc. to make your story more interesting to read or listen to.
                   4. If you don’t like the story in the task above, on a separate piece of paper write your own story
                       (7-10 lines).
                   5. Use drawings or anything else you can think of to illustrate your story.




                                                                                       Pupil’s
                                                                                        Pupil’sBook
                                                                                                Book••UNIT               1 / 105
                                                                                                            8 - • Lesson 2
                                                                                                       UNIT10




10-0103.indb 105                                                                                                                   1/7/14 1:58 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1–6 | top, 2 rows x 3: Night cartoon sequence of a boy in green shirt walking his brown dog, seeing a shooting star, a UFO with light beams, and two green aliens by a spacecraft.]
[IMAGE 7 | bottom-left: Small watercolour of a gingerbread/candy house with children.]
[IMAGE 8 | bottom-center: Small watercolour of a prince and princess dancing at a ball.]
Recurring small icons on this page: speech-bubble icon at F (1); pencil icon at G (1).
