CULTURAL CORNER
SCOTTISH CUSTOMS AND TRADITIONS

The visitor to Scotland should be aware of the customs of the country as otherwise they
may be confused by the behaviour of the Scots, which may seem odd at times if one is
unaware of the traditions and beliefs which lie behind them.
There are a number of important things the visitor should know about including the
Clan System, the Highland games, Hogmanay (the most important festival in the Scottish
calendar), Burns Night and above all, at least when visiting the highlands, religion in
Scotland. This is particularly important when visiting Caithness and Sutherland where
religious observance is taken very seriously and great offence can be caused by the careless
visitor who does not observe the rules.
FEUDS

Feuding (particularly in the highlands) between the clans, and between different religious
groups is a long-standing tradition in Scotland and is deeply ingrained in the character
of the people. The animosity between the supporters of the two Glasgow football teams
(Celtic and Rangers) is a modern manifestation of the Scots’ deep psychological need for
a fight.
Some Clans have long standing feuds with other Clans, sometimes for good historical
reasons, which have become almost a tradition. The most well known example of this is
probably the long-standing hatred of the McDonalds for the Campbells, which dates back
to the Massacre of Glencoe. Although centuries have passed and some McDonalds are
ostensibly best friends with some Campbells, so deeply rooted is the subconscious mistrust
that unaccountable rows
will break out between
these ‘friends’ for no
apparent reason.
Many Scottish Clans
have
internal
feuds
and individual family
members sometimes have
the worst feuds of all.
Feuds are so customary
and basic to life amongst
some Scots (particularly
some Highland families)
that it is not unknown for
a Scot to die from lack of
someone to fight with.
This is particularly true
for certain women who
will keep up an almost
demented lifetime feud
against another person
for a perceived slight
or wrong that any

32

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 32

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM

--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | lower half, photo collage: black-and-white action shots of kilted men tossing the caber and throwing the hammer at the Highland Games.]
