                 10
                  4
                      Study the following table to see how English people talk about facts and habits vs
                      actions happening now or “around now”.

                      Nadine and Jacques usually buy their Christmas decorations at the supermarket,
                      but this year they are making them themselves.

                      We often go abroad for our Christmas holidays, but this year we are spending it with Maria’s
                      parents.

                      Nick and Mary sometimes sing carols on Christmas Eve, but this year they are helping Mum with the
                      Christmas dinner.




                     D WEEKENDS DURING THE YEAR AND A SPECIAL ONE IN LONDON
                     Look at the photo album of Nadine and her family and see what she usually does at weekends. This
                     year for Christmas she is in London for three days enjoying the Christmas atmosphere with her
                     family. Use the pictures given to talk about Nadine and her family.

                     Work in pairs: e.g. Pupil A: Nadine reads at the weekends.
                     Pupil B: But today she is in London enjoying the Christmas lights in Trafalgar square.


                                   Pupil A                                                    Pupil B
                      On a typical weekend during the year                     During the Christmas period this year

                                                                                                                   Trafalgar Square
                                                                                                                            London




                                                                          Visiting interesting         Seeing the
                                                                                 places              Christmas lights
                                                                                             Buying
                                                                                                                     Carol singing
                                                                                        presents/gifts




                                                                          mother                          Nadine
                         (read/book, light/ﬁre, sew, watch/TV)
                                                                                       father                               brother


               52 / Pupil’s Book • UNIT 10
                                        4-•- •Lesson
                                               Lesson11




049-060 up.indd 52                                                                                                                    22/9/2022 3:34:57 µµ


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
RECURRING ON THIS PAGE: speaking bubble x1 (D), Grammar Focus magnifier x1. (See file header for one-time description.)
[IMAGE 1 | bottom-left panel (Pupil A): Pink 'On a typical weekend during the year' panel with four small paintings: girl lying on red rug reading a book (caption read/book); person curled in yellow armchair by a fireplace (light/fire); red-haired girl sewing/kitting in a chair (sew); girl reclining on yellow sofa with TV remote (watch/TV).]
[IMAGE 2 | bottom-right panel (Pupil B): Blue 'During the Christmas period this year' panel: large night photo of Trafalgar Square, London (illuminated Christmas tree, lit fountain, statue; caption top-right) with four cartoon faces below: mother ('Visiting interesting places'), father ('Buying presents/gifts'), Nadine ('Seeing the Christmas lights'), brother ('Carol singing'), each with a coloured speech bubble.]
