                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                        4
                     C     READING COMPREHENSION
               Susan and Nadine both love dolphins. They are finding out more about them. Susan is reading a book
               about dolphins. It has a lot of interesting information. She shows Nadine one of the pages.




                                    Dolphin T                ns with Special Needs
                                             herapy for Perso
                      Dolphins have a special way of making people feel more positive about life. There are several
                      organisations which help people with special needs by getting them to play with dolphins.

                      People with special needs often live routine lives in hospitals or day centres where they follow set
                      programmes. Depending on their illnesses they get up at fixed times, eat at fixed times, do physical
                      exercise at regular times throughout the day and go to bed at the same time. They lead very regular
                      lives.

                      What are some of these people with special needs doing today? They’re in Florida and they’re playing
                      with dolphins. A charity association has organised this day as a Christmas present for them. The
                      children are having fun swimming with the dolphins. They are holding onto the dolphins and the
                      dolphins are pulling the children along. They are all enjoying every moment. These are people who
                      don’t always smile but who are smiling today.




                     Using the information in the text above, write how a dolphin can help young people be happy.


                Special Needs Day to Day                                 Special Needs Dolphin Programme




                                                               GRAMMAR FOCUS




                                                                                         Pupil’s
                                                                                          Pupil’sBook
                                                                                                  Book••UNIT  4 - • Lesson 1 / 51
                                                                                                         UNIT10




049-060 up.indd 51                                                                                                           26/11/2024 11:22:36 πµ


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
RECURRING ON THIS PAGE: reading book x1 (C). (See file header for one-time description.)
[IMAGE 1 | middle: Light-blue wavy-bordered text box titled 'Dolphin Therapy for Persons with Special Needs' with three small cartoon blue dolphins decorating the top-left, top-right and bottom-right corners.]
[IMAGE 2 | bottom-left: Photo: smiling child splashing in the sea beside a leaping dolphin.]
[IMAGE 3 | bottom-right: Photo: group of children and adults standing in shallow water touching two dolphins. Comparison table ('Special Needs Day to Day' / 'Special Needs Dolphin Programme') sits above the photos.]
