                                                                                        Discover Grammar

              Abilities, obligations, advice
              In English we use verbs like can, must, should to talk about abilities and obligations or to give advice.
              These verbs are called modal verbs.
                       They go before other verbs.
                       They are always followed by the base form of these verbs.
              e.g. He can’t come with us because he doesn’t feel very well.

              • Can / Can’t
              We use can to talk about ability in the present and the future.
              e.g. Mary can swim very well, but her brother can’t. He’s afraid of water.

              • Must / Mustn’t
              We use must to talk about obligation in the present and the future. We use mustn’t to talk about things we
              are not allowed to do in the present and the future.
              e.g. We must follow the rules.

              • Should / Shouldn’t
              We use should to give advice to people. We often use think with should.
              e.g. It’s a nice play. You should go and see it.
                   What do you think I should do?
              0NOTE: Must is stronger than should.
              e.g. He doesn’t feel very well. He should go to the doctor.




                                                             UNIT 6
              Comparatives
              We use comparatives to compare two people, animals or things. We often use the word than after the
              comparative form.
              e.g. Bob is taller than Mark. / Your car is bigger than mine.

              • Short adjectives: Add –er to short adjectives to make the comparative form.
                  strong – stronger

              0NOTE: If the adjective ends in –y , you take off –y and you add –ier.
              e.g. healthy - healthier / easy - easier / pretty - prettier

              • Long adjectives: With long adjectives we use the word more before the adjective
              		                  to make the comparative form. e.g. beautiful - more beautiful

              Superlatives
              We use superlatives to compare one person or thing to several others.
              e.g. This is the youngest pupil in the class.


                                                                    Pupil’s Book • UNIT 6 - Appendix • Discover Grammar / 157




10-0103.indb 157                                                                                                                1/7/14 1:59 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[no content images – grammar tables/text only.]
