                                                                                         Discover Grammar

              e.g.    I think that walking to school is the best idea.
                      It seems to me that recycling is the only solution to save the planet.
                      In my opinion, keeping our school clean makes us feel better.

              Making suggestions
                      Why don’t we / you • Let’s (all) a base form of the verb (infinitive)
              e.g.    Why don’t you ride your bike to school?
                      Let’s all find a solution to the problem.

                      How about			                     a -ing

              e.g.    How about speaking to your friends about the problems of the environment?


                                                             UNIT 4
              Facts and habits vs. actions happening now
              We know that we use the Simple Present tense to talk about states and routines. We also know that we
              use the Present Continuous tense to talk about things that are happening now, at the time of speaking. Of
              course, we can have both tenses in one sentence to express two different situations.
              e.g. Jack usually goes to New York for holidays, but this year he is spending holidays in London.

              We can also use the following time expressions with each verb tense:

              				always, usually, often, sometimes,
                            		     rarely/seldom, never, every day,
              Simple
               				  Present       once a day/week/month/year,
              Present Continuous		 now, at the moment, at present, today,
              				                 this week / month / year

              Feelings
              In English we express feelings with the verbs of senses: look – smell – taste – feel.
              These verbs do not usually have a continuous tense, because they describe a state and not an action (see
              also Unit 1 – Likes, dislikes and preferences)
              e.g. You look nice in your new coat! / It tastes delicious. What is it?




                                                             UNIT 5
              Talking about intentions
              In English we can use three different ways to talk about the future.
              A. Simple future - will		        B. be going to C. Present continuous (future meaning)

              A. Simple future - will

                  We use will 		        when we decide to do something at the time of speaking
              			                       with words like: I think, probably
              e.g. Ok. I’ll come with you. / Will you get me some eggs from the super market? / They will probably come
              later.

                                                                   Pupil’s Book • UNIT 4-5 - Appendix • Discover Grammar / 155




133-168 UP.indd 155                                                                                                        29/1/2015 3:28:35 µµ


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[no content images – grammar tables/text only.]
