               ACTIVITY BOOK                                                         It’s your choice!

               M ACTIVITY C (p. 49) - (**)
               How much do you know about H. C. Andersen?
                                   INFORMATION ABOUT HANS CHRISTIAN ANDERSEN
                                             AndersenFairyTales.com presents

                                            The Story of Hans Christian Andersen
               Hans Christian Andersen was Danish. He was born in Odense, Denmark, almost 200 years ago
               on April 2, 1805. In fact, the year 2005 marked his 200th birthday!
               His father was a shoemaker, and his mother was a washerwoman for rich people in large homes.
               In his stories you will find many themes of the differences between the poor and the rich. You
               will also find the occasional shoemaker.
               Even as a child he always loved the arts, and he left home at age 14 to make his fortune.
               He was an artist, a singer and an actor, but he was not a success at first. He grew even
               poorer and almost died of hunger. He received some money and could afford to continue
               his education thanks to the help of a patron of the arts, the director of the Royal Theatre.
               He went to university in the capital city of Copenhagen and began writing.
               Andersen was first known as a poet, and his poetry won him many patrons and paid his way to
               travel throughout Europe.
               His first book of fairy tales was published in 1835. The book was a success, and he followed it
               with many other volumes of children’s stories, almost one a year, right up until 1872! Because
               of his wonderful fairy tales, Andersen became known as the greatest writer in Denmark, and
               one of the most beloved children’s
               authors in the world. In his lifetime,
               he wrote more than one hundred
               and fifty fairy tales, and his stories
               have been translated into over 100
               languages!
               One of the highest prizes in children’s
               literature is the Hans Christian
               Andersen Award, presented to only
               one author and one illustrator every two years. It is presided over by Queen Margrethe II of
               Denmark.
               Hans Christian Andersen was tall and skinny with a big nose he always thought that he was very ugly.
               His stories show compassion for those who are outcast and suffering. They also make fun of the
               spoiled and conceited.
               His stories teach us that appearances can be deceiving, and that there is a magical beauty even
               within the most unlikely characters.		
                                                                                        Hans Christian Andersen
                                                                        born April 2, 1805 - died August 4, 1875

               80 / Activity Book • UNIT 8 - Differentiated Activities • Lesson 1



10_0104_agglika.indd 80                                                                                               1/7/14 3:14 PM


--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[IMAGE 1 | lower half: Andersen cartoon with a castle landscape.]
