METHODOLOGICAL TIPS
The following Methodoligical Tips are here
to help you make the most of your teaching.
Remember there is no one right way to teach.
The key aim is to become aware of what is
possible.The act of teaching is essentially
a constant process of choosing between
different options. The tips offered here are
a means of enriching your list of options. By
following the guidelines, together with a little
inspiration, these should be of assistance to
make your lessons more rewarding, both for
you and for your pupils.

1. MULTIPLE INTELLIGENCES

Every learner adopts an individual style, or
a mixture of styles, in order to (re)construct
knowledge. Therefore, during the classroom
procedures it is difficult for teachers to assess
the degree of new knowledge pupils have
conquered. On the contrary, learners should
be treated as individuals, who bring their
own unique characteristics, e.g. rhythm,
pace, style, to the learning process (Gardner
1983). Howard Gardner proposes a new view
of intelligence which goes beyond the older
A. Metacognitive Strategies
Metacognitive strategies involve thinking about the
learning process, planning for learning, monitoring
the learning task, and evaluating how well one has
learned.
1. Advanced Organization	
Previewing the main idea and concepts of the
material to be learned, often by skimming the text
for the organizing principle.
2. Organizational Planning
Planning the parts, sequence, main ideas, or language
functions to be expressed orally or in writing.
3. Directed Attention	
Deciding in advance to attend in general to a learning
task and to ignore irrelevant distracters.
4. Selective Attention	
Deciding in advance to attend to specific aspects of
input, often by scanning for key words, concepts,
and/or linguistic markers.
5. Self-monitoring	
Checking one’s comprehension during listening
or reading, or checking the accuracy and/or
appropriateness of one’s oral or written production
while it is taking place.

6

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 6

concept of IQ which focused on mathematical
and linguistic abilities.
• His new intelligence areas includes: LogicalMathematical, Linguistic, Spatial, Musical,
Bodily-Kinaesthetic, Inter-personal, Intrapersonal and Naturalistic Intelligence. Daniel
Coleman added Emotional Intelligence.

2. LANGUAGE LEARNING STRATEGY
DEFINITIONS

Foreign language learning strategies
are specific actions, behaviours, steps or
techniques which pupils use – often consciously
– to improve their progress in apprehending,
internalizing and using L2. Research has
repeatedly shown that the conscious, tailored
use of such strategies is related to successful
language achievement and proficiency. Welltailored combinations of these strategies have
a much greater impact than single strategies.
There are different classification systems. We
show here one of the most complete systems,
devised by O’Malley & Chamot, where they
have divided the strategies into Metacognitive,
Social Affective and Cognitive.
6. Self-evaluation		
Judging how well one has accomplished a learning
activity after it has been completed.
7. Self-management	
Understanding the conditions that help one learn
and arranging for the presence of those conditions.
B. Social Affective Strategies
Social and affective strategies involve interacting
with another person to assist learning, or using
affective control to assist a learning task.
1. Questions for Clarification	
Eliciting from teacher or peer additional explanation,
rephrasing, or verification.
2. Cooperation		
W
 orking together with peers to solve a problem,
pool information, check a learning task, model a
language activity, or get feedback an oral or written
performance.
3. Self-talk		
Reducing anxiety by using mental techniques that
make one feel competent to do the learning task.
4. Self-reinforcement	
Providing personal motivation by arranging

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM

--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
