instead of their versions in the main part of
the book. If the class or some pupils find a
task in the book too easy or too difficult,
they can choose not to do this task and try
a more difficult or easier version of the task
in the Appendix.
When doing tiered tasks it is advisable
for you to split the class in more or less
homogeneous groups i.e. groups of pupils of
similar competence level in the specific area
and objective on which the task focuses.
3.C. Projects

Projects are based on the principles of
experiential and collaborative learning. As
such, their main aim is to enable learners
to learn by doing in order to enhance their
critical thinking and interactive skills while
their implementation presupposes work in
teams. Therefore, for maximum active participation, learners should:
• be exposed to collaborative and cooperative
work and reflect upon their role and
contributions as team members;
•
take initiatives, decide and agree on a
topic; select sub-topics;
•
conduct research, plan, organize, read,
write, interact, compile, present, perform,
publish their own work and
• evaluate the process as well as the end
product.
Projects are open-ended and flexible
and therefore provide an excellent basis
for differentiating teaching/learning. For
example, at the research stage of a project,
more competent learners can work on
more difficult texts, or with less teacher
support. Furthermore, some pupils might
prefer to work alone, while others might
work in groups. Another example of
differentiation, where we also apply the
Multiple Intelligences Theory, is as follows.
In a project on sports activities one group
of pupils might be guided to demonstrate a
sport as a kinaesthetic option, another group
of visual-spatial learners could collaborate
on designing a poster with the rules for the
sport, and another group of students with
verbal-linguistic intelligence could develop a
8

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 8

report on the sport.
3.D. Language Awareness Activities

Language awareness activities guide pupils
in noticing useful language forms in the text
used in the specific lesson or in texts read in
previous lessons (or in sentences assembled
from previously read texts). They are more
appropriate for mixed-ability classes.
Examples of language awareness activities:
• Pupils underline in the text(s) words that
end in -s or -’s and put them in categories
e.g. plural nouns, simple present, is, has,
genitive
• pupils underline in the text(s) words that
end in -ing and put them in categories
• pupils underline in the text(s) phrases with
the preposition ‘in’ and put then in two
categories: time and place
• pupils underline in the text(s) the adjectives
that are used to describe the nouns
3.E. Alternative assessment

• Differentiation is compatible with alternative
assessment and self-assessment, e.g.
portfolio, learner diaries, can-do-statements
etc. in the CEFR (2001)
•
Such types of assessment are growthreferenced, that is, they function as a
progress map recording and monitoring a
pupil’s improvement over time, and are not
based on a comparison of each learner’s
performance with that of the other pupils
(norm-referenced assessment).
DIFFERENTIATION
Teacher’s Book references:
• Projects: see p. 24, 28, 31, 41, 53, 65,
73
• Tiered Tasks:
- PB Appendix: from p. 133 to p. 152
- AB Appendix: from p. 64 to p. 86

4. SKILLS
According to current relevant literature
and research, one of the main goals of
language teaching nowadays concerns the
development of receptive (i.e. of reading
and listening) and productive skills (i.e.
of writing, speaking, oral interaction and
communication). A skills-based approach

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

2/4/14 2:02 PM

--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
