• Examples of Projects are to be found in all
units of this course.
PROJECTS Teacher’s Book references:
• Projects: p. 24, 28, 31, 41, 53, 65, 73

10. POETRY
10.A. Why is poetry important in the language
classroom?

• It can make us see things in new ways.
• It can be fun.
• It’s different – it makes for a break from
using the same old sentences about John
doing this or that.
10.B. Reading a poem in class. Steps:

• Set the scene by giving background
information
• Get the pupils to predict what vocabulary
items might be included
• Do a picture dictation: describe what
the poem contains and get the pupils to
draw the scene
• Give them other background information
about the author and period the poem
is set in
• Present the poem as if it were a mini
story before presenting them with the
real thing
• Get pupils to scan poetry anthologies and
present a poem that has inspired them
• Pupils may want to memorise poems they
really like
10.C. Writing a poem. Examples of activities:

• Provide a poem and ask pupils to fill in
the blanks
• Instant poetry: Give pupils clear instructions
to write simple sentences about things
around them. It’s surprising how poetic
young people can be.
• Get pupils to invent metaphors.
• Photocopy and give pupils cut up poems
for them to re-order.
• Tell them about haiku (Japanese poems
with a maximum of 17 syllables). See if
they can write something in haiku.

11. DRAMA
 Using drama in the classroom can be a

liberating experience. Pupils feel freer
from cultural constraints and are more
willing to experiment with language in
different contexts. It has been found to
be of particular benefit to shyer pupils.
The prerequisite is that will mutual trust
and respect or it is unlikely the work to be
useful.
Examples of Drama activities:
• Role-plays: Pupils act out discrete scenes
with the aid of role-play cards.
• Simulation: This is a much more complex
role-play involving maybe more characters
within one imaginary setting.
• Drama games: By making pupils be funny
characters with quirky lifestyles can be
lots of fun.
• Guided improvisation: this is where
the teacher sets the scene and pupils
invent a story and characters, played by
themselves. Guided and encouraged by
the teacher a story should unfold.
• Acting play scripts: short sketches or
plays are acted out in class or on school
stage.
• Prepared improvised drama: pupils
invent scenes and perform them in class
or for the school.
PROJECTS Teacher’s Book references:
• Role Plays: see under SPEAKING

12. CROSS-CURRICULAR
APPROACH
Many of the activities in the Pupil’s Book
have a cross-curricular link. The links are
stated in the Teacher’s Book under each
activity heading.
A cross-curricular approach is necessary for
the development of the pupil’s ability to examine
issues and problems of everyday life more
effectively. This also helps reduce knowledgecentred teaching and the use of school time
can be maximised. The teacher’s role is that of
mediator in a learning process which becomes
for the pupil more self-directed.
The following are suggested teaching
strategies in order to achieve the pupils’
holistic development as individuals and

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 15

15

2/4/14 2:02 PM

--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
