ENGLIGH LANGUAGE TEACHING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
INTRODUCTION TO THE COURSE
The E’ Class English Language Coursebook
is proposed by the Pedagogical Institute as
a tool to support the teaching and learning
processes in the Greek State Primary School.
Coursebook design and content are based
upon the principles of literacy, plurilingualism and pluriculturalism, as set by the Crosscurricular Unified Framework (2003).
This coursebook is based on thematic
units, which, we believe, will attract the
interests of the E’ Class pupils. Moreover,
the teachers who will introduce the
coursebook into the classroom procedure
should consider the pupils’ specific needs
as well as the needs of the local community.
For example, a coursebook unit that
explores the environmental issue should be
tailored in order to reflect local problems
and the particular pupils’ interests. In other
words, no coursebook can be the sole
source of knowledge. During the course of
implementation of each thematic unit, the
cross-curricular element will emerge within
the framework of a well-structured and
organized project. Projects will enable pupils
to explore issues such as local history or the
natural characteristics of the eco-system
(flora and fauna) in order to offer solutions
aiming to improve living conditions in the
area. The solutions will emerge through
the learners’ involvement in the local affairs
as social agents and active citizens. This
process will facilitate the holistic approach
of knowledge and the deep understanding
of fundamental cross-curricular concepts
(e.g. similarity, difference, space etc). In
this way the realistic element of English
language teaching will prevail and the
value of the foreign language as a
communication medium as well as a tool
for the development of ideas, values and
emotions will be established.

THE CROSS - THEMATIC / CROSS CURRICULAR APPROACH
The cross - thematic / cross - curricular
approach enables pupils to acquire a unified
body of knowledge and skills, following
a holistic approach to knowledge. This
approach will allow them to form their
own personal opinions on scientific issues
that are closely interrelated and are also
related with issues of everyday life. In this
way, pupils can form their own perception
of the world, their own ‘Cosmo’ theory and
their own opinions about the world they
should get to know, love and live in. The
cross - thematic / cross - curricular approach
is supplemented by methods of active
acquisition of knowledge, which are applied
in the teaching of individual subjects, and
are further explored during cross-thematic
activities which take place during the
teaching of each theme.
Fundamental concepts
Fundamental concepts (e.g. similarity difference / system / communication / time
- place / culture - civilization / interaction
- change - evolution, etc) can be explored
across various scientific fields and can
facilitate the horizontal linking of school
subjects. Some fundamental concepts that
can be called cross-thematic are common
in several subjects of the same grade, often
appear in school subjects of different classes
and can contribute to the promotion of
attitudes and values that are directly related
to the main aims of school education. The
combination of the above concepts by
adopting relevant practices facilitates the
implementation of the cross - thematic
approach, as it highlights the pupil’s
multidimensional perception of the world.

Teacher’s Book • Introduction

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 5

5

2/4/14 2:02 PM

--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
