rewards for oneself when a language learning
activity has been completed successfully.
C. Cognitive Strategies
Cognitive strategies involve interacting with the
material to be learned, manipulating the material
mentally or physically, or applying a specific
technique to a learning task.
1. Repetition
Imitating a language model exactly including oral
practice, silent practice or copying.
2. Rehearsal		
Rehearsing the language needed, with attention
to meaning, for an oral or written task.
3. Resourcing		
Using target language reference materials such
as dictionaries, encyclopedias, or textbooks.
4. Translation		
Using the first language as a base for understanding
and/or producing the second language.
5. Grouping		
Classifying words, terminology or concepts according to their attributes.
6. Substitution		
Using a replacement target language word or
phrase when the intended word or phrase is not
available.
7. Note-taking		
Writing down key words and concepts in


abbreviated verbal, graphic, or numerical form
during a listening or reading activity.
8. Summarizing 		
Making a mental or written summary of information gained through listening or reading.
9. Deduction/Induction	
Applying rules to understand or produce the
second language.
10. Imagery		
Using visual images to (either mental or actual)
understand and remember new information.
11. Auditory Representation 	
Playing back in one’s mind the sound of a word,
phrase or longer language sequence.
12. Contextualization	
Assisting comprehension or recall by placing
a word or phrase in a meaningful language
sequence or situational context.
13. Elaboration 		
Relating new information to prior knowledge,
relating different parts of new information to
each other, or making meaningful personal
associations to the new information
14. Transfer 		
Using previous linguistics knowledge or prior skills
to assist comprehension or production.
15. Inferencing		
Using information in an oral or written text to
guess meanings, predict outcomes, or complete
missing parts.

Based on Chamot, O’ Malley et als. 1987

3. DIFFERENTIATION
In the classroom we usually work with
pupils who have reached different levels
of language competences or who have
special learning needs. To offer our pupils
the opportunity to take full advantage of
the classroom experience, we should design
tasks of varying degree of difficulty, i.e.
tasks that can be adapted depending on
specific learner needs.
3.A. Principles of Differentiated Teaching

• Differentiation aims at maximising learning and development of each student.
•
In a differentiated classroom pupils are
matched with tasks according to their individual learner needs.
• Open-ended tasks i.e. tasks that allow for
multiple right answers, such as ‘predict

the content of a text from its title’, ‘write
a paragraph’, ‘role-play’, ‘put the items
in order of importance or preference’,
‘projects’ etc. are particularly appropriate
for mixed-ability classes because students
can produce language at their own level.
Closed tasks are less appropriate.
•
Pupils can work in groups of similar
competence level (homogeneous groups)
when doing ‘tiered tasks’. Tiered tasks
are those where one has two or three
versions of the same task varying in terms
of difficulty.
• Flexible classroom organization is a ‘must’
for differentiation.
3.B. Tiered tasks

Tiered tasks in the Appendix are to be used
by groups of pupils or even the whole class

Teacher’s Book • Methodological Tips

10-0105_AGGLIKA DASKALOU.indd 7

7

2/4/14 2:02 PM

--- IMAGES ON THIS PAGE ---
[NO CONTENT IMAGES]
